---
layout: default
title: puppet secret_agent Man Page
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-secret_agent</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Mimics puppet agent.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet secret_agent <var>action</var></p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand currently functions as a proof of concept, demonstrating how
the Faces API exposes Puppet's internal systems to application logic;
compare the actual code for puppet agent. It will eventually replace puppet
agent entirely, and can provide a template for users who wish to implement
agent-like functionality with non-standard application logic.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>synchronize</code> - Run secret_agent once.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet secret_agent</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Mimics a single run of puppet agent. This action does not currently
daemonize, but can download plugins, submit facts, retrieve and apply a
catalog, and submit a report to the puppet master.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>Verbose logging from the completed run. When used from the Ruby API:
returns a Puppet::Transaction::Report object.</p>

<p><code>NOTES</code></p>

<p>This action requires that the puppet master's <code>auth.conf</code> file allow save
access to the <code>facts</code> REST terminus. Puppet agent does not use this
facility, and it is turned off by default. See
<a href="http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/rest_auth_conf.html" data-bare-link="true">http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/rest_auth_conf.html</a> for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>synchronize</code></p>

<p>Trigger a Puppet run with the configured puppet master:</p>

<p>$ puppet secret_agent</p>

<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Labs
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
