---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 46e5188e3d20d712525caf5566fa2214e524637d
title: 'Man Page: puppet key'
canonical: "/puppet/latest/man/key.html"
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-key</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Create, save, and remove certificate keys.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet key <var>action</var> [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand manages certificate private keys. Keys are created
automatically by puppet agent and when certificate requests are generated
with 'puppet certificate generate'; it should not be necessary to use this
subcommand directly.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
<dt>--extra HASH</dt><dd>A terminus can take additional arguments to refine the operation, which
are passed as an arbitrary hash to the back-end.  Anything passed as
the extra value is just send direct to the back-end.</dd>
<dt>--terminus TERMINUS</dt><dd><p>Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of data
(with the familiar actions of <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>, and <code>destroy</code>)
from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In Puppet parlance,
these backends are called terminuses.</p>

<p>Almost all indirected subsystems have a <code>rest</code> terminus that interacts
with the puppet master's data. Most of them have additional terminuses
for various local data models, which are in turn used by the indirected
subsystem on the puppet master whenever it receives a remote request.</p>

<p>The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the "Notes" section of this
face's manpage for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>destroy</code> - Delete an object.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet key destroy [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>key</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Delete an object.</p></dd>
<dt><code>find</code> - Retrieve an object by name.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet key find [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] [<var>key</var>]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve an object by name.</p></dd>
<dt><code>info</code> - Print the default terminus class for this face.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet key info [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that different
run modes may have different default termini; when in doubt, specify the
run mode with the '--run_mode' option.</p></dd>
<dt><code>save</code> - API only: create or overwrite an object.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet key save [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>key</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>API only: create or overwrite an object. As the Faces framework does not
currently accept data from STDIN, save actions cannot currently be invoked
from the command line.</p></dd>
<dt><code>search</code> - Search for an object or retrieve multiple objects.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet key search [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>query</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Search for an object or retrieve multiple objects.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>,
and <code>destroy</code> actions for an indirected subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for
this face include:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>ca</code></li>
<li><code>disabled_ca</code></li>
<li><code>file</code></li>
<li><code>memory</code></li>
</ul>


<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Inc.
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
