---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 46e5188e3d20d712525caf5566fa2214e524637d
title: 'Man Page: puppet resource'
canonical: "/puppet/latest/man/resource.html"
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-resource</code> - <span class="man-whatis">The resource abstraction layer shell</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>Uses the Puppet RAL to directly interact with the system.</p>

<h2 id="USAGE">USAGE</h2>

<p>puppet resource [-h|--help] [-d|--debug] [-v|--verbose] [-e|--edit]
  [-p|--param <var>parameter</var>] [-t|--types] [-y|--to_yaml] <var>type</var>
  [<var>name</var>] [<var>attribute</var>=<var>value</var> ...]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This command provides simple facilities for converting current system
state into Puppet code, along with some ability to modify the current
state using Puppet's RAL.</p>

<p>By default, you must at least provide a type to list, in which case
puppet resource will tell you everything it knows about all resources of
that type. You can optionally specify an instance name, and puppet
resource will only describe that single instance.</p>

<p>If given a type, a name, and a series of <var>attribute</var>=<var>value</var> pairs,
puppet resource will modify the state of the specified resource.
Alternately, if given a type, a name, and the '--edit' flag, puppet
resource will write its output to a file, open that file in an editor,
and then apply the saved file as a Puppet transaction.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument. For example, 'ssldir' is a valid
setting, so you can specify '--ssldir <var>directory</var>' as an
argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
'--genconfig'.</p>

<dl>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd><p>Enable full debugging.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--edit</dt><dd><p>Write the results of the query to a file, open the file in an editor,
and read the file back in as an executable Puppet manifest.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--help</dt><dd><p>Print this help message.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--param</dt><dd><p>Add more parameters to be outputted from queries.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--types</dt><dd><p>List all available types.</p></dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd><p>Print extra information.</p></dd>
<dt>--to_yaml</dt><dd><p>Output found resources in yaml format, suitable to use with Hiera and create_resources.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLE">EXAMPLE</h2>

<p>This example uses <code>puppet resource</code> to return a Puppet configuration for
the user <code>luke</code>:</p>

<pre><code>$ puppet resource user luke
user { 'luke':
 home =&gt; '/home/luke',
 uid =&gt; '100',
 ensure =&gt; 'present',
 comment =&gt; 'Luke Kanies,,,',
 gid =&gt; '1000',
 shell =&gt; '/bin/bash',
 groups =&gt; ['sysadmin','audio','video','puppet']
}
</code></pre>

<h2 id="AUTHOR">AUTHOR</h2>

<p>Luke Kanies</p>

<h2 id="COPYRIGHT">COPYRIGHT</h2>

<p>Copyright (c) 2011 Puppet Inc., LLC Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License</p>

</div>
