---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 629a508e98d21e5fe98a8a35b2c31dbc62e6a669
title: 'Man Page: puppet certificate_revocation_list'
canonical: /puppet/latest/reference/man/certificate_revocation_list.html
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-certificate_revocation_list</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Manage the list of revoked certificates.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet certificate_revocation_list <var>action</var> [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand is primarily for retrieving the certificate revocation
list from the CA.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
<dt>--extra HASH</dt><dd>A terminus can take additional arguments to refine the operation, which
are passed as an arbitrary hash to the back-end.  Anything passed as
the extra value is just send direct to the back-end.</dd>
<dt>--terminus TERMINUS</dt><dd><p>Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of data
(with the familiar actions of <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>, and <code>destroy</code>)
from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In Puppet parlance,
these backends are called terminuses.</p>

<p>Almost all indirected subsystems have a <code>rest</code> terminus that interacts
with the puppet master's data. Most of them have additional terminuses
for various local data models, which are in turn used by the indirected
subsystem on the puppet master whenever it receives a remote request.</p>

<p>The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the "Notes" section of this
face's manpage for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>destroy</code> - Delete the certificate revocation list.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet certificate_revocation_list destroy [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>dummy_text</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Deletes the certificate revocation list. This cannot be done over REST, but
it is possible to delete the locally cached copy or the local CA's copy of
the CRL.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>Nothing.</p>

<p><code>NOTES</code></p>

<p>Although this action always deletes the CRL from the specified terminus, it
requires a dummy argument; this is a known bug.</p></dd>
<dt><code>find</code> - Retrieve the certificate revocation list.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet certificate_revocation_list find [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
[<var>key</var>]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve the certificate revocation list.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>The certificate revocation list. When used from the Ruby API: returns an
OpenSSL::X509::CRL object.</p>

<p><code>NOTES</code></p>

<p>Although this action always returns the CRL from the specified terminus.</p></dd>
<dt><code>info</code> - Print the default terminus class for this face.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet certificate_revocation_list info [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that different
run modes may have different default termini; when in doubt, specify the
run mode with the '--run_mode' option.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>find</code></p>

<p>Retrieve a copy of the puppet master's CRL:</p>

<p>$ puppet certificate_revocation_list find --terminus rest</p>

<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>,
and <code>destroy</code> actions for an indirected subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for
this face include:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>ca</code></li>
<li><code>disabled_ca</code></li>
<li><code>file</code></li>
<li><code>rest</code></li>
</ul>


<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Labs
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
