---
layout: default
title: "Type Reference"
canonical: "/puppet/latest/reference/type.html"
---


# Type Reference



**This page is autogenerated; any changes will get overwritten** *(last generated on Thu Sep 05 14:13:41 -0700 2013)*



## Resource Types

- The *namevar* is the parameter used to uniquely identify a type instance.
  This is the parameter that gets assigned when a string is provided before
  the colon in a type declaration.  In general, only developers will need to
  worry about which parameter is the `namevar`.

  In the following code:

      file { "/etc/passwd":
        owner => root,
        group => root,
        mode  => 644
      }

  `/etc/passwd` is considered the title of the file object (used for things like
  dependency handling), and because `path` is the namevar for `file`, that
  string is assigned to the `path` parameter.

- *Parameters* determine the specific configuration of the instance.  They either
  directly modify the system (internally, these are called properties) or they affect
  how the instance behaves (e.g., adding a search path for `exec` instances or determining recursion on `file` instances).

- *Providers* provide low-level functionality for a given resource type.  This is
  usually in the form of calling out to external commands.

  When required binaries are specified for providers, fully qualifed paths
  indicate that the binary must exist at that specific path and unqualified
  binaries indicate that Puppet will search for the binary using the shell
  path.

- *Features* are abilities that some providers might not support.  You can use the list
  of supported features to determine how a given provider can be used.

  Resource types define features they can use, and providers can be tested to see
  which features they provide.



----------------

### augeas

Apply a change or an array of changes to the filesystem
using the augeas tool.

Requires:

- [Augeas](http://www.augeas.net)
- The ruby-augeas bindings

Sample usage with a string:

    augeas{"test1" :
      context => "/files/etc/sysconfig/firstboot",
      changes => "set RUN_FIRSTBOOT YES",
      onlyif  => "match other_value size > 0",
    }

Sample usage with an array and custom lenses:

    augeas{"jboss_conf":
      context   => "/files",
      changes   => [
          "set etc/jbossas/jbossas.conf/JBOSS_IP $ipaddress",
          "set etc/jbossas/jbossas.conf/JAVA_HOME /usr",
        ],
      load_path => "$/usr/share/jbossas/lenses",
    }



#### Features

- *execute_changes*: Actually make the changes
- *need_to_run?*: If the command should run
- *parse_commands*: Parse the command string


Provider | execute changes | need to run? | parse commands |
-------- | --------------- | ------------ | -------------- |
augeas   | *X*             | *X*          | *X*            |

#### Parameters


changes
: The changes which should be applied to the filesystem. This
  can be a command or an array of commands. The following commands are supported:

  `set <PATH> <VALUE>`
  : Sets the value `VALUE` at loction `PATH`


  `setm <PATH> <SUB> <VALUE>`
  : Sets multiple nodes (matching `SUB` relative to `PATH`) to `VALUE`


  `rm <PATH>`
  : Removes the node at location `PATH`


  `remove <PATH>`
  : Synonym for `rm`


  `clear <PATH>`
  : Sets the node at `PATH` to `NULL`, creating it if needed


  `ins <LABEL> (before|after) <PATH>`
  : Inserts an empty node `LABEL` either before or after `PATH`.


  `insert <LABEL> <WHERE> <PATH>`
  : Synonym for `ins`


  `mv <PATH> <OTHER PATH>`
  : Moves a node at `PATH` to the new location `OTHER PATH`


  `move <PATH> <OTHER PATH>`
  : Synonym for `mv`


  `defvar <NAME> <PATH>`
  : Sets Augeas variable `$NAME` to `PATH`


  `defnode <NAME> <PATH> <VALUE>`
  : Sets Augeas variable `$NAME` to `PATH`, creating it with `VALUE` if needed

  If the `context` parameter is set, that value is prepended to any relative `PATH`s.

context
: Optional context path. This value is prepended to the paths of all
  changes if the path is relative. If the `incl` parameter is set,
  defaults to `/files + incl`; otherwise, defaults to the empty string.

force
: Optional command to force the augeas type to execute even if it thinks changes
  will not be made. This does not overide the `onlyif` parameter.

incl
: Load only a specific file, e.g. `/etc/hosts`. This can greatly speed
  up the execution the resource. When this parameter is set, you must also
  set the `lens` parameter to indicate which lens to use.

lens
: Use a specific lens, e.g. `Hosts.lns`. When this parameter is set, you
  must also set the `incl` parameter to indicate which file to load.

load_path
: Optional colon-separated list or array of directories; these directories are searched for schema definitions. The agent's `$libdir/augeas/lenses` path will always be added to support pluginsync.

name
: The name of this task. Used for uniqueness.

onlyif
: Optional augeas command and comparisons to control the execution of this type.
  Supported onlyif syntax:

  * `get <AUGEAS_PATH> <COMPARATOR> <STRING>`
  * `match <MATCH_PATH> size <COMPARATOR> <INT>`
  * `match <MATCH_PATH> include <STRING>`
  * `match <MATCH_PATH> not_include <STRING>`
  * `match <MATCH_PATH> == <AN_ARRAY>`
  * `match <MATCH_PATH> != <AN_ARRAY>`

  where:

  * `AUGEAS_PATH` is a valid path scoped by the context
  * `MATCH_PATH` is a valid match synatx scoped by the context
  * `COMPARATOR` is one of `>, >=, !=, ==, <=,` or `<`
  * `STRING` is a string
  * `INT` is a number
  * `AN_ARRAY` is in the form `['a string', 'another']`

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `augeas`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  augeas
  : Supported features: `execute_changes`, `need_to_run?`, `parse_commands`.

returns
: The expected return code from the augeas command. Should not be set.

root
: A file system path; all files loaded by Augeas are loaded underneath `root`.

type_check
: Whether augeas should perform typechecking. Defaults to false.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.




----------------

### computer

Computer object management using DirectoryService
on OS X.

Note that these are distinctly different kinds of objects to 'hosts',
as they require a MAC address and can have all sorts of policy attached to
them.

This provider only manages Computer objects in the local directory service
domain, not in remote directories.

If you wish to manage `/etc/hosts` file on Mac OS X, then simply use the host
type as per other platforms.

This type primarily exists to create localhost Computer objects that MCX
policy can then be attached to.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the plist file representing a
Computer object (located at `/var/db/dslocal/nodes/Default/computers/{name}.plist`),
the Computer resource will autorequire it.

#### Parameters


en_address
: The MAC address of the primary network interface. Must match en0.

ensure
: Control the existences of this computer record. Set this attribute to
  `present` to ensure the computer record exists.  Set it to `absent`
  to delete any computer records with this name  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

ip_address
: The IP Address of the Computer object.

name
: The authoritative 'short' name of the computer record.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `computer`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  directoryservice
  : Computer object management using DirectoryService on OS X.
    Note that these are distinctly different kinds of objects to 'hosts',
    as they require a MAC address and can have all sorts of policy attached to
    them.

    This provider only manages Computer objects in the local directory service
    domain, not in remote directories.

    If you wish to manage /etc/hosts on Mac OS X, then simply use the host
    type as per other platforms.

    Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.

realname
: The 'long' name of the computer record.




----------------

### cron

Installs and manages cron jobs.  Every cron resource requires a command
and user attribute, as well as at least one periodic attribute (hour,
minute, month, monthday, weekday, or special).  While the name of the cron
job is not part of the actual job, it is used by Puppet to store and
retrieve it.

If you specify a cron job that matches an existing job in every way
except name, then the jobs will be considered equivalent and the
new name will be permanently associated with that job.  Once this
association is made and synced to disk, you can then manage the job
normally (e.g., change the schedule of the job).

Example:

    cron { logrotate:
      command => "/usr/sbin/logrotate",
      user    => root,
      hour    => 2,
      minute  => 0
    }

Note that all periodic attributes can be specified as an array of values:

    cron { logrotate:
      command => "/usr/sbin/logrotate",
      user    => root,
      hour    => [2, 4]
    }

...or using ranges or the step syntax `*/2` (although there's no guarantee
that your `cron` daemon supports these):

    cron { logrotate:
      command => "/usr/sbin/logrotate",
      user    => root,
      hour    => ['2-4'],
      minute  => '*/10'
    }


#### Parameters


command
: The command to execute in the cron job.  The environment
  provided to the command varies by local system rules, and it is
  best to always provide a fully qualified command.  The user's
  profile is not sourced when the command is run, so if the
  user's environment is desired it should be sourced manually.

  All cron parameters support `absent` as a value; this will
  remove any existing values for that field.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

environment
: Any environment settings associated with this cron job.  They
  will be stored between the header and the job in the crontab.  There
  can be no guarantees that other, earlier settings will not also
  affect a given cron job.


  Also, Puppet cannot automatically determine whether an existing,
  unmanaged environment setting is associated with a given cron
  job.  If you already have cron jobs with environment settings,
  then Puppet will keep those settings in the same place in the file,
  but will not associate them with a specific job.

  Settings should be specified exactly as they should appear in
  the crontab, e.g., `PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin`.

hour
: The hour at which to run the cron job. Optional;
  if specified, must be between 0 and 23, inclusive.

minute
: The minute at which to run the cron job.
  Optional; if specified, must be between 0 and 59, inclusive.

month
: The month of the year.  Optional; if specified
  must be between 1 and 12 or the month name (e.g., December).

monthday
: The day of the month on which to run the
  command.  Optional; if specified, must be between 1 and 31.

name
: The symbolic name of the cron job.  This name
  is used for human reference only and is generated automatically
  for cron jobs found on the system.  This generally won't
  matter, as Puppet will do its best to match existing cron jobs
  against specified jobs (and Puppet adds a comment to cron jobs it adds),
  but it is at least possible that converting from unmanaged jobs to
  managed jobs might require manual intervention.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `cron`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  crontab
  : Required binaries: `crontab`.

special
: A special value such as 'reboot' or 'annually'.
  Only available on supported systems such as Vixie Cron.
  Overrides more specific time of day/week settings.

target
: Where the cron job should be stored.  For crontab-style
  entries this is the same as the user and defaults that way.
  Other providers default accordingly.

user
: The user to run the command as.  This user must
  be allowed to run cron jobs, which is not currently checked by
  Puppet.

  The user defaults to whomever Puppet is running as.

weekday
: The weekday on which to run the command.
  Optional; if specified, must be between 0 and 7, inclusive, with
  0 (or 7) being Sunday, or must be the name of the day (e.g., Tuesday).




----------------

### exec

Executes external commands.  It is critical that all commands
executed using this mechanism can be run multiple times without
harm, i.e., they are *idempotent*.  One useful way to create idempotent
commands is to use the checks like `creates` to avoid running the
command unless some condition is met.

Note that you can restrict an `exec` to only run when it receives
events by using the `refreshonly` parameter; this is a useful way to
have your configuration respond to events with arbitrary commands.

Note also that if an `exec` receives an event from another resource,
it will get executed again (or execute the command specified in `refresh`, if there is one).

There is a strong tendency to use `exec` to do whatever work Puppet
can't already do; while this is obviously acceptable (and unavoidable)
in the short term, it is highly recommended to migrate work from `exec`
to native Puppet types as quickly as possible.  If you find that
you are doing a lot of work with `exec`, please at least notify
us at Puppet Labs what you are doing, and hopefully we can work with
you to get a native resource type for the work you are doing.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing an exec's cwd or the executable
file used in an exec's command, the exec resource will autorequire those
files. If Puppet is managing the user that an exec should run as, the
exec resource will autorequire that user.

#### Parameters


command
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The actual command to execute.  Must either be fully qualified
  or a search path for the command must be provided.  If the command
  succeeds, any output produced will be logged at the instance's
  normal log level (usually `notice`), but if the command fails
  (meaning its return code does not match the specified code) then
  any output is logged at the `err` log level.

creates
: A file that this command creates.  If this
  parameter is provided, then the command will only be run
  if the specified file does not exist.

      exec { "tar -xf /Volumes/nfs02/important.tar":
        cwd     => "/var/tmp",
        creates => "/var/tmp/myfile",
        path    => ["/usr/bin", "/usr/sbin"]
      }

  In this example, if `/var/tmp/myfile` is ever deleted, the exec
  will bring it back by re-extracting the tarball.

cwd
: The directory from which to run the command.  If
  this directory does not exist, the command will fail.

environment
: Any additional environment variables you want to set for a
  command.  Note that if you use this to set PATH, it will override
  the `path` attribute.  Multiple environment variables should be
  specified as an array.

group
: The group to run the command as.  This seems to work quite
  haphazardly on different platforms -- it is a platform issue
  not a Ruby or Puppet one, since the same variety exists when
  running commands as different users in the shell.

logoutput
: Whether to log output.  Defaults to logging output at the
  loglevel for the `exec` resource. Use *on_failure* to only
  log the output when the command reports an error.  Valid values are `true`, `false`, `on_failure`.

onlyif
: If this parameter is set, then this `exec` will only run if
  the command returns 0.  For example:

      exec { "logrotate":
        path   => "/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin",
        onlyif => "test `du /var/log/messages | cut -f1` -gt 100000"
      }

  This would run `logrotate` only if that test returned true.

  Note that this command follows the same rules as the main command,
  which is to say that it must be fully qualified if the path is not set.

  Also note that onlyif can take an array as its value, e.g.:

      onlyif => ["test -f /tmp/file1", "test -f /tmp/file2"]

  This will only run the exec if _all_ conditions in the array return true.

path
: The search path used for command execution.
  Commands must be fully qualified if no path is specified.  Paths
  can be specified as an array or as a ':' separated list.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `exec`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  posix
  : Executes external binaries directly, without passing through a shell or
    performing any interpolation. This is a safer and more predictable way
    to execute most commands, but prevents the use of globbing and shell
    built-ins (including control logic like "for" and "if" statements).


    Default for `feature` == `posix`.

  shell
  : Passes the provided command through `/bin/sh`; only available on
    POSIX systems. This allows the use of shell globbing and built-ins, and
    does not require that the path to a command be fully-qualified. Although
    this can be more convenient than the `posix` provider, it also means that
    you need to be more careful with escaping; as ever, with great power comes
    etc. etc.

    This provider closely resembles the behavior of the `exec` type
    in Puppet 0.25.x.

  windows
  : Execute external binaries on Windows systems. As with the `posix`
    provider, this provider directly calls the command with the arguments
    given, without passing it through a shell or performing any interpolation.
    To use shell built-ins --- that is, to emulate the `shell` provider on
    Windows --- a command must explicitly invoke the shell:

        exec {'echo foo':
          command => 'cmd.exe /c echo "foo"',
        }

    If no extension is specified for a command, Windows will use the `PATHEXT`
    environment variable to locate the executable.

    **Note on PowerShell scripts:** PowerShell's default `restricted`
    execution policy doesn't allow it to run saved scripts. To run PowerShell
    scripts, specify the `remotesigned` execution policy as part of the
    command:

        exec { 'test':
          path    => 'C:/Windows/System32/WindowsPowerShell/v1.0',
          command => 'powershell -executionpolicy remotesigned -file C:/test.ps1',
        }



    Default for `operatingsystem` == `windows`.

refresh
: How to refresh this command.  By default, the exec is just
  called again when it receives an event from another resource,
  but this parameter allows you to define a different command
  for refreshing.

refreshonly
: The command should only be run as a
  refresh mechanism for when a dependent object is changed.  It only
  makes sense to use this option when this command depends on some
  other object; it is useful for triggering an action:

      # Pull down the main aliases file
      file { "/etc/aliases":
        source => "puppet://server/module/aliases"
      }

      # Rebuild the database, but only when the file changes
      exec { newaliases:
        path        => ["/usr/bin", "/usr/sbin"],
        subscribe   => File["/etc/aliases"],
        refreshonly => true
      }

  Note that only `subscribe` and `notify` can trigger actions, not `require`,
  so it only makes sense to use `refreshonly` with `subscribe` or `notify`.
    Valid values are `true`, `false`.

returns
: The expected return code(s).  An error will be returned if the
  executed command returns something else.  Defaults to 0. Can be
  specified as an array of acceptable return codes or a single value.

timeout
: The maximum time the command should take.  If the command takes
  longer than the timeout, the command is considered to have failed
  and will be stopped. The timeout is specified in seconds. The default
  timeout is 300 seconds and you can set it to 0 to disable the timeout.

tries
: The number of times execution of the command should be tried.
  Defaults to '1'. This many attempts will be made to execute
  the command until an acceptable return code is returned.
  Note that the timeout paramater applies to each try rather than
  to the complete set of tries.

try_sleep
: The time to sleep in seconds between 'tries'.

unless
: If this parameter is set, then this `exec` will run unless
  the command returns 0.  For example:

      exec { "/bin/echo root >> /usr/lib/cron/cron.allow":
        path   => "/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin",
        unless => "grep root /usr/lib/cron/cron.allow 2>/dev/null"
      }

  This would add `root` to the cron.allow file (on Solaris) unless
  `grep` determines it's already there.

  Note that this command follows the same rules as the main command,
  which is to say that it must be fully qualified if the path is not set.

user
: The user to run the command as.  Note that if you
  use this then any error output is not currently captured.  This
  is because of a bug within Ruby.  If you are using Puppet to
  create this user, the exec will automatically require the user,
  as long as it is specified by name.




----------------

### file

Manages files, including their content, ownership, and permissions.

The `file` type can manage normal files, directories, and symlinks; the
type should be specified in the `ensure` attribute. Note that symlinks cannot
be managed on Windows systems.

File contents can be managed directly with the `content` attribute, or
downloaded from a remote source using the `source` attribute; the latter
can also be used to recursively serve directories (when the `recurse`
attribute is set to `true` or `local`). On Windows, note that file
contents are managed in binary mode; Puppet never automatically translates
line endings.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user or group that owns a
file, the file resource will autorequire them. If Puppet is managing any
parent directories of a file, the file resource will autorequire them.

#### Parameters


backup
: Whether files should be backed up before
  being replaced.  The preferred method of backing files up is via
  a `filebucket`, which stores files by their MD5 sums and allows
  easy retrieval without littering directories with backups.  You
  can specify a local filebucket or a network-accessible
  server-based filebucket by setting `backup => bucket-name`.
  Alternatively, if you specify any value that begins with a `.`
  (e.g., `.puppet-bak`), then Puppet will use copy the file in
  the same directory with that value as the extension of the
  backup. Setting `backup => false` disables all backups of the
  file in question.

  Puppet automatically creates a local filebucket named `puppet` and
  defaults to backing up there.  To use a server-based filebucket,
  you must specify one in your configuration.

        filebucket { main:
          server => puppet,
          path   => false,
          # The path => false line works around a known issue with the filebucket type.
        }

  The `puppet master` daemon creates a filebucket by default,
  so you can usually back up to your main server with this
  configuration.  Once you've described the bucket in your
  configuration, you can use it in any file's backup attribute:

        file { "/my/file":
          source => "/path/in/nfs/or/something",
          backup => main
        }

  This will back the file up to the central server.

  At this point, the benefits of using a central filebucket are that you
  do not have backup files lying around on each of your machines, a given
  version of a file is only backed up once, you can restore any given file
  manually (no matter how old), and you can use Puppet Dashboard to view
  file contents.  Eventually, transactional support will be able to
  automatically restore filebucketed files.

checksum
: The checksum type to use when determining whether to replace a file's contents.

  The default checksum type is md5.  Valid values are `md5`, `md5lite`, `mtime`, `ctime`, `none`.

content
: The desired contents of a file, as a string. This attribute is mutually
  exclusive with `source` and `target`.

  Newlines and tabs can be specified in double-quoted strings using
  standard escaped syntax --- \n for a newline, and \t for a tab.

  With very small files, you can construct content strings directly in
  the manifest...

      define resolve(nameserver1, nameserver2, domain, search) {
          $str = "search $search
              domain $domain
              nameserver $nameserver1
              nameserver $nameserver2
              "

          file { "/etc/resolv.conf":
            content => "$str",
          }
      }

  ...but for larger files, this attribute is more useful when combined with the
  [template](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/function.html#template)
  function.

ctime
: A read-only state to check the file ctime.

ensure
: Whether to create files that don't currently exist.
  Possible values are *absent*, *present*, *file*, and *directory*.
  Specifying `present` will match any form of file existence, and
  if the file is missing will create an empty file. Specifying
  `absent` will delete the file (or directory, if `recurse => true`).

  Anything other than the above values will create a symlink; note that
  symlinks cannot be managed on Windows. In the interest of readability
  and clarity, symlinks should be created by setting `ensure => link` and
  explicitly specifying a target; however, if a `target` attribute isn't
  provided, the value of the `ensure` attribute will be used as the
  symlink target. The following two declarations are equivalent:

      # (Useful on Solaris)

      # Less maintainable:
      file { "/etc/inetd.conf":
        ensure => "/etc/inet/inetd.conf",
      }

      # More maintainable:
      file { "/etc/inetd.conf":
        ensure => link,
        target => "/etc/inet/inetd.conf",
      }
    Valid values are `absent` (also called `false`), `file`, `present`, `directory`, `link`.  Values can match `/./`.

force
: Perform the file operation even if it will destroy one or more directories.
  You must use `force` in order to:

  * `purge` subdirectories
  * Replace directories with files or links
  * Remove a directory when `ensure => absent`  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

group
: Which group should own the file.  Argument can be either a group
  name or a group ID.

  On Windows, a user (such as "Administrator") can be set as a file's group
  and a group (such as "Administrators") can be set as a file's owner;
  however, a file's owner and group shouldn't be the same. (If the owner
  is also the group, files with modes like `0640` will cause log churn, as
  they will always appear out of sync.)

ignore
: A parameter which omits action on files matching
  specified patterns during recursion.  Uses Ruby's builtin globbing
  engine, so shell metacharacters are fully supported, e.g. `[a-z]*`.
  Matches that would descend into the directory structure are ignored,
  e.g., `*/*`.

links
: How to handle links during file actions.  During file copying,
  `follow` will copy the target file instead of the link, `manage`
  will copy the link itself, and `ignore` will just pass it by.
  When not copying, `manage` and `ignore` behave equivalently
  (because you cannot really ignore links entirely during local
  recursion), and `follow` will manage the file to which the link points.  Valid values are `follow`, `manage`.

mode
: The desired permissions mode for the file, in symbolic or numeric
  notation. Puppet uses traditional Unix permission schemes and translates
  them to equivalent permissions for systems which represent permissions
  differently, including Windows.

  Numeric modes should use the standard four-digit octal notation of
  `<setuid/setgid/sticky><owner><group><other>` (e.g. 0644). Each of the
  "owner," "group," and "other" digits should be a sum of the
  permissions for that class of users, where read = 4, write = 2, and
  execute/search = 1. When setting numeric permissions for
  directories, Puppet sets the search permission wherever the read
  permission is set.

  Symbolic modes should be represented as a string of comma-separated
  permission clauses, in the form `<who><op><perm>`:

  * "Who" should be u (user), g (group), o (other), and/or a (all)
  * "Op" should be = (set exact permissions), + (add select permissions),
    or - (remove select permissions)
  * "Perm" should be one or more of:
      * r (read)
      * w (write)
      * x (execute/search)
      * t (sticky)
      * s (setuid/setgid)
      * X (execute/search if directory or if any one user can execute)
      * u (user's current permissions)
      * g (group's current permissions)
      * o (other's current permissions)

  Thus, mode `0664` could be represented symbolically as either `a=r,ug+w` or
  `ug=rw,o=r`. See the manual page for GNU or BSD `chmod` for more details
  on numeric and symbolic modes.

  On Windows, permissions are translated as follows:

  * Owner and group names are mapped to Windows SIDs
  * The "other" class of users maps to the "Everyone" SID
  * The read/write/execute permissions map to the `FILE_GENERIC_READ`,
    `FILE_GENERIC_WRITE`, and `FILE_GENERIC_EXECUTE` access rights; a
    file's owner always has the `FULL_CONTROL` right
  * "Other" users can't have any permissions a file's group lacks,
    and its group can't have any permissions its owner lacks; that is, 0644
    is an acceptable mode, but 0464 is not.

mtime
: A read-only state to check the file mtime.

owner
: The user to whom the file should belong.  Argument can be a user name or a
  user ID.

  On Windows, a group (such as "Administrators") can be set as a file's owner
  and a user (such as "Administrator") can be set as a file's group; however,
  a file's owner and group shouldn't be the same. (If the owner is also
  the group, files with modes like `0640` will cause log churn, as they
  will always appear out of sync.)

path
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The path to the file to manage.  Must be fully qualified.

  On Windows, the path should include the drive letter and should use `/` as
  the separator character (rather than `\\`).

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `file`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  posix
  : Uses POSIX functionality to manage file ownership and permissions.

  windows
  : Uses Microsoft Windows functionality to manage file ownership and permissions.

purge
: Whether unmanaged files should be purged. This option only makes
  sense when managing directories with `recurse => true`.

  * When recursively duplicating an entire directory with the `source`
    attribute, `purge => true` will automatically purge any files
    that are not in the source directory.
  * When managing files in a directory as individual resources,
    setting `purge => true` will purge any files that aren't being
    specifically managed.

  If you have a filebucket configured, the purged files will be uploaded,
  but if you do not, this will destroy data.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

recurse
: Whether and how deeply to do recursive
  management. Options are:

  * `inf,true` --- Regular style recursion on both remote and local
    directory structure.
  * `remote` --- Descends recursively into the remote directory
    but not the local directory. Allows copying of
    a few files into a directory containing many
    unmanaged files without scanning all the local files.
  * `false` --- Default of no recursion.
  * `[0-9]+` --- Same as true, but limit recursion. Warning: this syntax
    has been deprecated in favor of the `recurselimit` attribute.
  Valid values are `true`, `false`, `inf`, `remote`.  Values can match `/^[0-9]+$/`.

recurselimit
: How deeply to do recursive management.  Values can match `/^[0-9]+$/`.

replace
: Whether to replace a file that already exists on the local system but
  whose content doesn't match what the `source` or `content` attribute
  specifies.  Setting this to false allows file resources to initialize files
  without overwriting future changes.  Note that this only affects content;
  Puppet will still manage ownership and permissions. Defaults to `true`.  Valid values are `true` (also called `yes`), `false` (also called `no`).

selinux_ignore_defaults
: If this is set then Puppet will not ask SELinux (via matchpathcon) to
  supply defaults for the SELinux attributes (seluser, selrole,
  seltype, and selrange). In general, you should leave this set at its
  default and only set it to true when you need Puppet to not try to fix
  SELinux labels automatically.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

selrange
: What the SELinux range component of the context of the file should be.
  Any valid SELinux range component is accepted.  For example `s0` or
  `SystemHigh`.  If not specified it defaults to the value returned by
  matchpathcon for the file, if any exists.  Only valid on systems with
  SELinux support enabled and that have support for MCS (Multi-Category
  Security).

selrole
: What the SELinux role component of the context of the file should be.
  Any valid SELinux role component is accepted.  For example `role_r`.
  If not specified it defaults to the value returned by matchpathcon for
  the file, if any exists.  Only valid on systems with SELinux support
  enabled.

seltype
: What the SELinux type component of the context of the file should be.
  Any valid SELinux type component is accepted.  For example `tmp_t`.
  If not specified it defaults to the value returned by matchpathcon for
  the file, if any exists.  Only valid on systems with SELinux support
  enabled.

seluser
: What the SELinux user component of the context of the file should be.
  Any valid SELinux user component is accepted.  For example `user_u`.
  If not specified it defaults to the value returned by matchpathcon for
  the file, if any exists.  Only valid on systems with SELinux support
  enabled.

source
: A source file, which will be copied into place on the local system.
  Values can be URIs pointing to remote files, or fully qualified paths to
  files available on the local system (including files on NFS shares or
  Windows mapped drives). This attribute is mutually exclusive with
  `content` and `target`.

  The available URI schemes are *puppet* and *file*. *Puppet*
  URIs will retrieve files from Puppet's built-in file server, and are
  usually formatted as:

  `puppet:///modules/name_of_module/filename`

  This will fetch a file from a module on the puppet master (or from a
  local module when using puppet apply). Given a `modulepath` of
  `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/modules`, the example above would resolve to
  `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/modules/name_of_module/files/filename`.

  Unlike `content`, the `source` attribute can be used to recursively copy
  directories if the `recurse` attribute is set to `true` or `remote`. If
  a source directory contains symlinks, use the `links` attribute to
  specify whether to recreate links or follow them.

  Multiple `source` values can be specified as an array, and Puppet will
  use the first source that exists. This can be used to serve different
  files to different system types:

      file { "/etc/nfs.conf":
        source => [
          "puppet:///modules/nfs/conf.$host",
          "puppet:///modules/nfs/conf.$operatingsystem",
          "puppet:///modules/nfs/conf"
        ]
      }

  Alternately, when serving directories recursively, multiple sources can
  be combined by setting the `sourceselect` attribute to `all`.

sourceselect
: Whether to copy all valid sources, or just the first one.  This parameter
  only affects recursive directory copies; by default, the first valid
  source is the only one used, but if this parameter is set to `all`, then
  all valid sources will have all of their contents copied to the local
  system. If a given file exists in more than one source, the version from
  the earliest source in the list will be used.  Valid values are `first`, `all`.

target
: The target for creating a link.  Currently, symlinks are the
  only type supported. This attribute is mutually exclusive with `source`
  and `content`.

  Symlink targets can be relative, as well as absolute:

      # (Useful on Solaris)
      file { "/etc/inetd.conf":
        ensure => link,
        target => "inet/inetd.conf",
      }

  Directories of symlinks can be served recursively by instead using the
  `source` attribute, setting `ensure` to `directory`, and setting the
  `links` attribute to `manage`.  Valid values are `notlink`.  Values can match `/./`.

type
: A read-only state to check the file type.




----------------

### filebucket

A repository for backing up files.  If no filebucket is
defined, then files will be backed up in their current directory,
but the filebucket can be either a host- or site-global repository
for backing up.  It stores files and returns the MD5 sum, which
can later be used to retrieve the file if restoration becomes
necessary.  A filebucket does not do any work itself; instead,
it can be specified as the value of *backup* in a **file** object.

Currently, filebuckets are only useful for manual retrieval of
accidentally removed files (e.g., you look in the log for the md5 sum
and retrieve the file with that sum from the filebucket), but when
transactions are fully supported filebuckets will be used to undo
transactions.

You will normally want to define a single filebucket for your
whole network and then use that as the default backup location:

    # Define the bucket
    filebucket { 'main':
      server => puppet,
      path   => false,
      # Due to a known issue, path must be set to false for remote filebuckets.
    }

    # Specify it as the default target
    File { backup => main }

Puppetmaster servers create a filebucket by default, so this will
work in a default configuration.

#### Parameters


name
: The name of the filebucket.

path
: The path to the local filebucket.  If this is
  unset, then the bucket is remote.  The parameter *server* must
  can be specified to set the remote server.

port
: The port on which the remote server is listening.
  Defaults to the normal Puppet port, 8140.

server
: The server providing the remote filebucket.  If this is not
  specified then *path* is checked. If it is set, then the
  bucket is local.  Otherwise the puppetmaster server specified
  in the config or at the commandline is used.

  Due to a known issue, you currently must set the `path` attribute to
  false if you wish to specify a `server` attribute.




----------------

### group

Manage groups. On most platforms this can only create groups.
Group membership must be managed on individual users.

On some platforms such as OS X, group membership is managed as an
attribute of the group, not the user record. Providers must have
the feature 'manages_members' to manage the 'members' property of
a group record.

#### Features

- *manages_aix_lam*: The provider can manage AIX Loadable Authentication Module (LAM) system.
- *manages_members*: For directories where membership is an attribute of groups not users.
- *system_groups*: The provider allows you to create system groups with lower GIDs.


Provider         | manages aix lam | manages members | system groups |
---------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ------------- |
aix              | *X*             | *X*             |               |
directoryservice |                 | *X*             |               |
groupadd         | *X*             |                 | *X*           |
ldap             |                 |                 |               |
pw               |                 | *X*             |               |
windows_adsi     |                 | *X*             |               |

#### Parameters


allowdupe
: Whether to allow duplicate GIDs. Defaults to `false`.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

attribute_membership
: Whether specified attribute value pairs should be treated as the only attributes
  of the user or whether they should merely
  be treated as the minimum list.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

attributes
: Specify group AIX attributes in an array of `key=value` pairs.  Requires features manages_aix_lam.

auth_membership
: whether the provider is authoritative for group membership.

ensure
: Create or remove the group.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

gid
: The group ID.  Must be specified numerically.  If no group ID is
  specified when creating a new group, then one will be chosen
  automatically according to local system standards. This will likely
  result in the same group having different GIDs on different systems,
  which is not recommended.

  On Windows, this property is read-only and will return the group's security
  identifier (SID).

ia_load_module
: The name of the I&A module to use to manage this user  Requires features manages_aix_lam.

members
: The members of the group. For directory services where group
  membership is stored in the group objects, not the users.  Requires features manages_members.

name
: The group name. While naming limitations vary by operating system,
  it is advisable to restrict names to the lowest common denominator,
  which is a maximum of 8 characters beginning with a letter.

  Note that Puppet considers group names to be case-sensitive, regardless
  of the platform's own rules; be sure to always use the same case when
  referring to a given group.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `group`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  aix
  : Group management for AIX.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/chgroup`, `/usr/sbin/lsgroup`, `/usr/sbin/rmgroup`, `/usr/bin/mkgroup`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `aix`.  Supported features: `manages_aix_lam`, `manages_members`.

  directoryservice
  : Group management using DirectoryService on OS X.



    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/dscl`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.  Supported features: `manages_members`.

  groupadd
  : Group management via `groupadd` and its ilk. The default for most platforms.



    Required binaries: `groupmod`, `groupdel`, `groupadd`.  Supported features: `system_groups`.

  ldap
  : Group management via LDAP.

    This provider requires that you have valid values for all of the
    LDAP-related settings in `puppet.conf`, including `ldapbase`.  You will
    almost definitely need settings for `ldapuser` and `ldappassword` in order
    for your clients to write to LDAP.

    Note that this provider will automatically generate a GID for you if you do
    not specify one, but it is a potentially expensive operation, as it
    iterates across all existing groups to pick the appropriate next one.

  pw
  : Group management via `pw` on FreeBSD.

    Required binaries: `pw`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `freebsd`.  Supported features: `manages_members`.

  windows_adsi
  : Local group management for Windows. Nested groups are not supported.

    Default for `operatingsystem` == `windows`.  Supported features: `manages_members`.

system
: Whether the group is a system group with lower GID.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.




----------------

### host

Installs and manages host entries.  For most systems, these
entries will just be in `/etc/hosts`, but some systems (notably OS X)
will have different solutions.

#### Parameters


comment
: A comment that will be attached to the line with a # character.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

host_aliases
: Any aliases the host might have.  Multiple values must be
  specified as an array.

ip
: The host's IP address, IPv4 or IPv6.

name
: The host name.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `host`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  parsed
  :

target
: The file in which to store service information.  Only used by
  those providers that write to disk. On most systems this defaults to `/etc/hosts`.




----------------

### interface

This represents a router or switch interface. It is possible to manage
interface mode (access or trunking, native vlan and encapsulation) and
switchport characteristics (speed, duplex).

#### Parameters


allowed_trunk_vlans
: Allowed list of Vlans that this trunk can forward.  Valid values are `all`.  Values can match `/./`.

description
: Interface description.

device_url
: The URL at which the router or switch can be reached.

duplex
: Interface duplex.  Valid values are `auto`, `full`, `half`.

encapsulation
: Interface switchport encapsulation.  Valid values are `none`, `dot1q`, `isl`.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present` (also called `no_shutdown`), `absent` (also called `shutdown`).

etherchannel
: Channel group this interface is part of.  Values can match `/^\d+/`.

ipaddress
: IP Address of this interface. Note that it might not be possible to set
  an interface IP address; it depends on the interface type and device type.

  Valid format of ip addresses are:

  * IPV4, like 127.0.0.1
  * IPV4/prefixlength like 127.0.1.1/24
  * IPV6/prefixlength like FE80::21A:2FFF:FE30:ECF0/128
  * an optional suffix for IPV6 addresses from this list: `eui-64`, `link-local`

  It is also possible to supply an array of values.

mode
: Interface switchport mode.  Valid values are `access`, `trunk`.

name
: The interface's name.

native_vlan
: Interface native vlan (for access mode only).  Values can match `/^\d+/`.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `interface`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  cisco
  : Cisco switch/router provider for interface.

speed
: Interface speed.  Valid values are `auto`.  Values can match `/^\d+/`.




----------------

### k5login

Manage the `.k5login` file for a user.  Specify the full path to
the `.k5login` file as the name, and an array of principals as the
`principals` attribute.

#### Parameters


ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

mode
: The desired permissions mode of the `.k5login` file. Defaults to `644`.

path
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The path to the `.k5login` file to manage.  Must be fully qualified.

principals
: The principals present in the `.k5login` file. This should be specified as an array.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `k5login`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  k5login
  : The k5login provider is the only provider for the k5login
    type.




----------------

### macauthorization

Manage the Mac OS X authorization database. See the
[Apple developer site](http://developer.apple.com/documentation/Security/Conceptual/Security_Overview/Security_Services/chapter_4_section_5.html)
for more information.

Note that authorization store directives with hyphens in their names have
been renamed to use underscores, as Puppet does not react well to hyphens
in identifiers.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the `/etc/authorization` file, each
macauthorization resource will autorequire it.

#### Parameters


allow_root
: Corresponds to `allow-root` in the authorization store. Specifies
  whether a right should be allowed automatically if the requesting process
  is running with `uid == 0`.  AuthorizationServices defaults this attribute
  to false if not specified.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

auth_class
: Corresponds to `class` in the authorization store; renamed due
  to 'class' being a reserved word in Puppet.  Valid values are `user`, `evaluate-mechanisms`, `allow`, `deny`, `rule`.

auth_type
: Type --- this can be a `right` or a `rule`. The `comment` type has
  not yet been implemented.  Valid values are `right`, `rule`.

authenticate_user
: Corresponds to `authenticate-user` in the authorization store.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

comment
: The `comment` attribute for authorization resources.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

group
: A group which the user must authenticate as a member of. This
  must be a single group.

k_of_n
: How large a subset of rule mechanisms must succeed for successful
  authentication. If there are 'n' mechanisms, then 'k' (the integer value
  of this parameter) mechanisms must succeed. The most common setting for
  this parameter is `1`. If `k-of-n` is not set, then every mechanism ---
  that is, 'n-of-n' --- must succeed.

mechanisms
: An array of suitable mechanisms.

name
: The name of the right or rule to be managed.
  Corresponds to `key` in Authorization Services. The key is the name
  of a rule. A key uses the same naming conventions as a right. The
  Security Server uses a rule's key to match the rule with a right.
  Wildcard keys end with a '.'. The generic rule has an empty key value.
  Any rights that do not match a specific rule use the generic rule.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `macauthorization`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  macauthorization
  : Manage Mac OS X authorization database rules and rights.



    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/sw_vers`, `/usr/bin/security`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.

rule
: The rule(s) that this right refers to.

session_owner
: Whether the session owner automatically matches this rule or right.
  Corresponds to `session-owner` in the authorization store.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

shared
: Whether the Security Server should mark the credentials used to gain
  this right as shared. The Security Server may use any shared credentials
  to authorize this right. For maximum security, set sharing to false so
  credentials stored by the Security Server for one application may not be
  used by another application.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

timeout
: The number of seconds in which the credential used by this rule will
  expire. For maximum security where the user must authenticate every time,
  set the timeout to 0. For minimum security, remove the timeout attribute
  so the user authenticates only once per session.

tries
: The number of tries allowed.




----------------

### mailalias

Creates an email alias in the local alias database.

#### Parameters


ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

name
: The alias name.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `mailalias`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  aliases
  :

recipient
: Where email should be sent.  Multiple values
  should be specified as an array.

target
: The file in which to store the aliases.  Only used by
  those providers that write to disk.




----------------

### maillist

Manage email lists.  This resource type can only create
and remove lists; it cannot currently reconfigure them.

#### Parameters


admin
: The email address of the administrator.

description
: The description of the mailing list.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`, `purged`.

mailserver
: The name of the host handling email for the list.

name
: The name of the email list.

password
: The admin password.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `maillist`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  mailman
  : Required binaries: `/var/lib/mailman/mail/mailman`, `list_lists`, `rmlist`, `newlist`.

webserver
: The name of the host providing web archives and the administrative interface.




----------------

### mcx

MCX object management using DirectoryService on OS X.

The default provider of this type merely manages the XML plist as
reported by the `dscl -mcxexport` command.  This is similar to the
content property of the file type in Puppet.

The recommended method of using this type is to use Work Group Manager
to manage users and groups on the local computer, record the resulting
puppet manifest using the command `puppet resource mcx`, then deploy it
to other machines.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user, group, or computer that these
MCX settings refer to, the MCX resource will autorequire that user, group, or computer.


#### Features

- *manages_content*: The provider can manage MCXSettings as a string.


Provider   | manages content |
---------- | --------------- |
mcxcontent | *X*             |

#### Parameters


content
: The XML Plist used as the value of MCXSettings in DirectoryService.
  This is the standard output from the system command:

      dscl localhost -mcxexport /Local/Default/<ds_type>/ds_name

  Note that `ds_type` is capitalized and plural in the dscl command.  Requires features manages_content.

ds_name
: The name to attach the MCX Setting to. (For example, `localhost`
  when `ds_type => computer`.) This setting is not required, as it can be
  automatically discovered when the resource name is parseable.  (For
  example, in `/Groups/admin`, `group` will be used as the dstype.)

ds_type
: The DirectoryService type this MCX setting attaches to.  Valid values are `user`, `group`, `computer`, `computerlist`.

ensure
: Create or remove the MCX setting.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

name
: The name of the resource being managed.
  The default naming convention follows Directory Service paths:

      /Computers/localhost
      /Groups/admin
      /Users/localadmin

  The `ds_type` and `ds_name` type parameters are not necessary if the
  default naming convention is followed.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `mcx`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  mcxcontent
  : MCX Settings management using DirectoryService on OS X.

    This provider manages the entire MCXSettings attribute available
    to some directory services nodes.  This management is 'all or nothing'
    in that discrete application domain key value pairs are not managed
    by this provider.

    It is recommended to use WorkGroup Manager to configure Users, Groups,
    Computers, or ComputerLists, then use 'ralsh mcx' to generate a puppet
    manifest from the resulting configuration.

    Original Author: Jeff McCune (mccune.jeff@gmail.com)



    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/dscl`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.  Supported features: `manages_content`.




----------------

### mount

Manages mounted filesystems, including putting mount
information into the mount table. The actual behavior depends
on the value of the 'ensure' parameter.

Note that if a `mount` receives an event from another resource,
it will try to remount the filesystems if `ensure` is set to `mounted`.

#### Features

- *refreshable*: The provider can remount the filesystem.


Provider | refreshable |
-------- | ----------- |
parsed   | *X*         |

#### Parameters


atboot
: Whether to mount the mount at boot.  Not all platforms
  support this.

blockdevice
: The device to fsck.  This is property is only valid
  on Solaris, and in most cases will default to the correct
  value.

device
: The device providing the mount.  This can be whatever
  device is supporting by the mount, including network
  devices or devices specified by UUID rather than device
  path, depending on the operating system.

dump
: Whether to dump the mount.  Not all platform support this.
  Valid values are `1` or `0`. or `2` on FreeBSD, Default is `0`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`, `/(0|1)/`.

ensure
: Control what to do with this mount. Set this attribute to
  `umounted` to make sure the filesystem is in the filesystem table
  but not mounted (if the filesystem is currently mounted, it will be
  unmounted).  Set it to `absent` to unmount (if necessary) and remove
  the filesystem from the fstab.  Set to `mounted` to add it to the
  fstab and mount it. Set to `present` to add to fstab but not change
  mount/unmount status.  Valid values are `defined` (also called `present`), `unmounted`, `absent`, `mounted`.

fstype
: The mount type.  Valid values depend on the
  operating system.  This is a required option.

name
: The mount path for the mount.

options
: Mount options for the mounts, as they would
  appear in the fstab.

pass
: The pass in which the mount is checked.

path
: The deprecated name for the mount point.  Please use `name` now.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `mount`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  parsed
  : Required binaries: `umount`, `mount`.  Supported features: `refreshable`.

remounts
: Whether the mount can be remounted  `mount -o remount`.  If
  this is false, then the filesystem will be unmounted and remounted
  manually, which is prone to failure.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

target
: The file in which to store the mount table.  Only used by
  those providers that write to disk.




----------------

### nagios_command

The Nagios type command.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_command.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


command_line
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

command_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_command resource.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_command`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_contact

The Nagios type contact.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_contact.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


address1
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

address2
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

address3
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

address4
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

address5
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

address6
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

alias
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

can_submit_commands
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contact_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_contact resource.

contactgroups
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

email
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

host_notification_commands
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_notification_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_notification_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_notifications_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

pager
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_contact`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retain_nonstatus_information
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retain_status_information
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

service_notification_commands
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

service_notification_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

service_notification_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

service_notifications_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_contactgroup

The Nagios type contactgroup.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_contactgroup.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


alias
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contactgroup_members
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contactgroup_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_contactgroup resource.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

members
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_contactgroup`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_host

The Nagios type host.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_host.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


action_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

active_checks_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

address
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

alias
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

check_command
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

check_freshness
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

check_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

check_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contact_groups
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contacts
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

display_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

event_handler
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

event_handler_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

failure_prediction_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

first_notification_delay
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

flap_detection_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

flap_detection_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

freshness_threshold
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

high_flap_threshold
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_host resource.

hostgroups
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

icon_image
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

icon_image_alt
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

initial_state
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

low_flap_threshold
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

max_check_attempts
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notifications_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

obsess_over_host
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

parents
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

passive_checks_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

process_perf_data
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_host`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retain_nonstatus_information
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retain_status_information
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retry_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

stalking_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

statusmap_image
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

vrml_image
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_hostdependency

The Nagios type hostdependency.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostdependency.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


_naginator_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_hostdependency resource.

dependency_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

dependent_host_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

dependent_hostgroup_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

execution_failure_criteria
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

hostgroup_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

inherits_parent
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_failure_criteria
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_hostdependency`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_hostescalation

The Nagios type hostescalation.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostescalation.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


_naginator_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_hostescalation resource.

contact_groups
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contacts
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

escalation_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

escalation_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

first_notification
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

hostgroup_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

last_notification
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_hostescalation`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_hostextinfo

The Nagios type hostextinfo.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostextinfo.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

host_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_hostextinfo resource.

icon_image
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

icon_image_alt
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_hostextinfo`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

statusmap_image
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

vrml_image
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_hostgroup

The Nagios type hostgroup.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostgroup.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


action_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

alias
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

hostgroup_members
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

hostgroup_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_hostgroup resource.

members
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_hostgroup`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_service

The Nagios type service.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_service.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


_naginator_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_service resource.

action_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

active_checks_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

check_command
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

check_freshness
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

check_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

check_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contact_groups
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contacts
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

display_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

event_handler
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

event_handler_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

failure_prediction_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

first_notification_delay
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

flap_detection_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

flap_detection_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

freshness_threshold
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

high_flap_threshold
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

hostgroup_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

icon_image
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

icon_image_alt
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

initial_state
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

is_volatile
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

low_flap_threshold
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

max_check_attempts
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

normal_check_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notifications_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

obsess_over_service
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

parallelize_check
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

passive_checks_enabled
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

process_perf_data
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_service`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retain_nonstatus_information
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retain_status_information
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retry_check_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

retry_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

service_description
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

servicegroups
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

stalking_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_servicedependency

The Nagios type servicedependency.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_servicedependency.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


_naginator_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_servicedependency resource.

dependency_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

dependent_host_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

dependent_hostgroup_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

dependent_service_description
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

execution_failure_criteria
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

hostgroup_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

inherits_parent
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_failure_criteria
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_servicedependency`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

service_description
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_serviceescalation

The Nagios type serviceescalation.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_serviceescalation.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


_naginator_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_serviceescalation resource.

contact_groups
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

contacts
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

escalation_options
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

escalation_period
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

first_notification
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

host_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

hostgroup_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

last_notification
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notification_interval
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_serviceescalation`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

service_description
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

servicegroup_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_serviceextinfo

The Nagios type serviceextinfo.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_serviceextinfo.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


_naginator_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_serviceextinfo resource.

action_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

host_name
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

icon_image
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

icon_image_alt
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_serviceextinfo`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

service_description
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_servicegroup

The Nagios type servicegroup.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_servicegroup.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


action_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

alias
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

members
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

notes_url
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_servicegroup`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

servicegroup_members
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

servicegroup_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_servicegroup resource.

target
: The target.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_timeperiod

The Nagios type timeperiod.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_timeperiod.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.



#### Parameters


alias
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

exclude
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

friday
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

monday
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `nagios_timeperiod`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  naginator
  :

register
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

saturday
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

sunday
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

target
: The target.

thursday
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

timeperiod_name
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name of this nagios_timeperiod resource.

tuesday
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

use
: Nagios configuration file parameter.

wednesday
: Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### notify

Sends an arbitrary message to the agent run-time log.

#### Parameters


message
: The message to be sent to the log.

name
: An arbitrary tag for your own reference; the name of the message.

withpath
: Whether to show the full object path. Defaults to false.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.




----------------

### package

Manage packages.  There is a basic dichotomy in package
support right now:  Some package types (e.g., yum and apt) can
retrieve their own package files, while others (e.g., rpm and sun)
cannot.  For those package formats that cannot retrieve their own files,
you can use the `source` parameter to point to the correct file.

Puppet will automatically guess the packaging format that you are
using based on the platform you are on, but you can override it
using the `provider` parameter; each provider defines what it
requires in order to function, and you must meet those requirements
to use a given provider.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the files specified as a
package's `adminfile`, `responsefile`, or `source`, the package
resource will autorequire those files.

#### Features

- *holdable*: The provider is capable of placing packages on hold such that they are not automatically upgraded as a result of other package dependencies unless explicit action is taken by a user or another package. Held is considered a superset of installed.
- *install_options*: The provider accepts options to be passed to the installer command.
- *installable*: The provider can install packages.
- *purgeable*: The provider can purge packages.  This generally means that all traces of the package are removed, including existing configuration files.  This feature is thus destructive and should be used with the utmost care.
- *uninstallable*: The provider can uninstall packages.
- *upgradeable*: The provider can upgrade to the latest version of a package.  This feature is used by specifying `latest` as the desired value for the package.
- *versionable*: The provider is capable of interrogating the package database for installed version(s), and can select which out of a set of available versions of a package to install if asked.


Provider    | holdable | install options | installable | purgeable | uninstallable | upgradeable | versionable |
----------- | -------- | --------------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
aix         |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
appdmg      |          |                 | *X*         |           |               |             |             |
apple       |          |                 | *X*         |           |               |             |             |
apt         | *X*      |                 | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
aptitude    | *X*      |                 | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
aptrpm      |          |                 | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
blastwave   |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
dpkg        | *X*      |                 | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         |             |
fink        | *X*      |                 | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
freebsd     |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           |             |             |
gem         |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
hpux        |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           |             |             |
macports    |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
msi         |          | *X*             | *X*         |           | *X*           |             |             |
nim         |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
openbsd     |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           |             | *X*         |
pacman      |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
pip         |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
pkg         |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
pkgdmg      |          |                 | *X*         |           |               |             |             |
pkgutil     |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
portage     |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
ports       |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
portupgrade |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
rpm         |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
rug         |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
sun         |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
sunfreeware |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
up2date     |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
urpmi       |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
yum         |          |                 | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
zypper      |          |                 | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |

#### Parameters


adminfile
: A file containing package defaults for installing packages.
  This is currently only used on Solaris.  The value will be
  validated according to system rules, which in the case of
  Solaris means that it should either be a fully qualified path
  or it should be in `/var/sadm/install/admin`.

allowcdrom
: Tells apt to allow cdrom sources in the sources.list file.
  Normally apt will bail if you try this.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

category
: A read-only parameter set by the package.

configfiles
: Whether configfiles should be kept or replaced.  Most packages
  types do not support this parameter. Defaults to `keep`.  Valid values are `keep`, `replace`.

description
: A read-only parameter set by the package.

ensure
: What state the package should be in. On packaging systems that can
  retrieve new packages on their own, you can choose which package to
  retrieve by specifying a version number or `latest` as the ensure
  value. On packaging systems that manage configuration files separately
  from "normal" system files, you can uninstall config files by
  specifying `purged` as the ensure value.
    Valid values are `present` (also called `installed`), `absent`, `purged`, `held`, `latest`.  Values can match `/./`.

flavor
: Newer versions of OpenBSD support 'flavors', which are
  further specifications for which type of package you want.

install_options
: A hash of additional options to pass when installing a package. These
  options are package-specific, and should be documented by the software
  vendor. The most commonly implemented option is `INSTALLDIR`:

      package { 'mysql':
        ensure          => installed,
        provider        => 'msi',
        source          => 'N:/packages/mysql-5.5.16-winx64.msi',
        install_options => { 'INSTALLDIR' => 'C:\\mysql-5.5' },
      }

  Since these options are passed verbatim to `msiexec`, any file paths
  specified in `install_options` should use a backslash as the separator
  character rather than a forward slash. This is the **only** place in Puppet
  where backslash separators should be used. Note that backslashes in
  double-quoted strings _must_ be double-escaped and backslashes
  in single-quoted strings _may_ be double-escaped.
    Requires features install_options.

instance
: A read-only parameter set by the package.

name
: The package name.  This is the name that the packaging
  system uses internally, which is sometimes (especially on Solaris)
  a name that is basically useless to humans.  If you want to
  abstract package installation, then you can use aliases to provide
  a common name to packages:

      # In the 'openssl' class
      $ssl = $operatingsystem ? {
        solaris => SMCossl,
        default => openssl
      }

      # It is not an error to set an alias to the same value as the
      # object name.
      package { $ssl:
        ensure => installed,
        alias  => openssl
      }

      . etc. .

      $ssh = $operatingsystem ? {
        solaris => SMCossh,
        default => openssh
      }

      # Use the alias to specify a dependency, rather than
      # having another selector to figure it out again.
      package { $ssh:
        ensure  => installed,
        alias   => openssh,
        require => Package[openssl]
      }

platform
: A read-only parameter set by the package.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `package`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  aix
  : Installation from the AIX software directory.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/lslpp`, `/usr/sbin/installp`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `aix`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  appdmg
  : Package management which copies application bundles to a target.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/ditto`, `/usr/bin/hdiutil`, `/usr/bin/curl`.  Supported features: `installable`.

  apple
  : Package management based on OS X's builtin packaging system.  This is
    essentially the simplest and least functional package system in existence --
    it only supports installation; no deletion or upgrades.  The provider will
    automatically add the `.pkg` extension, so leave that off when specifying
    the package name.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/installer`.  Supported features: `installable`.

  apt
  : Package management via `apt-get`.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/apt-get`, `/usr/bin/apt-cache`, `/usr/bin/debconf-set-selections`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `debian, ubuntu`.  Supported features: `holdable`, `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  aptitude
  : Package management via `aptitude`.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/apt-cache`, `/usr/bin/aptitude`.  Supported features: `holdable`, `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  aptrpm
  : Package management via `apt-get` ported to `rpm`.

    Required binaries: `apt-get`, `rpm`, `apt-cache`.  Supported features: `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  blastwave
  : Package management using Blastwave.org's `pkg-get` command on Solaris.

    Required binaries: `pkg-get`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  dpkg
  : Package management via `dpkg`.  Because this only uses `dpkg`
    and not `apt`, you must specify the source of any packages you want
    to manage.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/dpkg-deb`, `/usr/bin/dpkg-query`, `/usr/bin/dpkg`.  Supported features: `holdable`, `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  fink
  : Package management via `fink`.

    Required binaries: `/sw/bin/dpkg-query`, `/sw/bin/apt-get`, `/sw/bin/apt-cache`, `/sw/bin/fink`.  Supported features: `holdable`, `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  freebsd
  : The specific form of package management on FreeBSD.  This is an
    extremely quirky packaging system, in that it freely mixes between
    ports and packages.  Apparently all of the tools are written in Ruby,
    so there are plans to rewrite this support to directly use those
    libraries.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/pkg_add`, `/usr/sbin/pkg_delete`, `/usr/sbin/pkg_info`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`.

  gem
  : Ruby Gem support.  If a URL is passed via `source`, then that URL is used as the
    remote gem repository; if a source is present but is not a valid URL, it will be
    interpreted as the path to a local gem file.  If source is not present at all,
    the gem will be installed from the default gem repositories.

    Required binaries: `gem`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  hpux
  : HP-UX's packaging system.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/swinstall`, `/usr/sbin/swlist`, `/usr/sbin/swremove`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `hp-ux`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`.

  macports
  : Package management using MacPorts on OS X.

    Supports MacPorts versions and revisions, but not variants.
    Variant preferences may be specified using
    [the MacPorts variants.conf file](http://guide.macports.org/chunked/internals.configuration-files.html#internals.configuration-files.variants-conf).

    When specifying a version in the Puppet DSL, only specify the version, not the revision.
    Revisions are only used internally for ensuring the latest version/revision of a port.


    Required binaries: `/opt/local/bin/port`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  msi
  : Windows package management by installing and removing MSIs.

    This provider requires a `source` attribute, and will accept paths to local
    files, mapped drives, or UNC paths.

    Default for `operatingsystem` == `windows`.  Supported features: `install_options`, `installable`, `uninstallable`.

  nim
  : Installation from NIM LPP source.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/nimclient`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  openbsd
  : OpenBSD's form of `pkg_add` support.

    Required binaries: `pkg_add`, `pkg_delete`, `pkg_info`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `openbsd`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `versionable`.

  pacman
  : Support for the Package Manager Utility (pacman) used in Archlinux.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/pacman`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `archlinux`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  pip
  : Python packages via `pip`.

    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  pkg
  : OpenSolaris image packaging system. See pkg(5) for more information

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/pkg`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  pkgdmg
  : Package management based on Apple's Installer.app and
    DiskUtility.app.  This package works by checking the contents of a
    DMG image for Apple pkg or mpkg files. Any number of pkg or mpkg
    files may exist in the root directory of the DMG file system.
    Subdirectories are not checked for packages.  See
    [the wiki docs on this provider](http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/Package_Management_With_Dmg_Patterns)
    for more detail.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/installer`, `/usr/bin/hdiutil`, `/usr/bin/curl`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.  Supported features: `installable`.

  pkgutil
  : Package management using Peter Bonivart's ``pkgutil`` command on Solaris.

    Required binaries: `pkgutil`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  portage
  : Provides packaging support for Gentoo's portage system.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/emerge`, `/usr/bin/eix`, `/usr/bin/eix-update`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `gentoo`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  ports
  : Support for FreeBSD's ports.  Note that this, too, mixes packages and ports.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/pkg_info`, `/usr/local/sbin/portupgrade`, `/usr/local/sbin/portversion`, `/usr/local/sbin/pkg_deinstall`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `freebsd`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  portupgrade
  : Support for FreeBSD's ports using the portupgrade ports management software.
    Use the port's full origin as the resource name. eg (ports-mgmt/portupgrade)
    for the portupgrade port.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/pkg_info`, `/usr/local/sbin/portupgrade`, `/usr/local/sbin/portversion`, `/usr/local/sbin/portinstall`, `/usr/local/sbin/pkg_deinstall`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  rpm
  : RPM packaging support; should work anywhere with a working `rpm`
    binary.

    Required binaries: `rpm`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  rug
  : Support for suse `rug` package manager.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/rug`, `rpm`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `suse, sles`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  sun
  : Sun's packaging system.  Requires that you specify the source for
    the packages you're managing.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/pkgadd`, `/usr/sbin/pkgrm`, `/usr/bin/pkginfo`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  sunfreeware
  : Package management using sunfreeware.com's `pkg-get` command on Solaris.
    At this point, support is exactly the same as `blastwave` support and
    has not actually been tested.

    Required binaries: `pkg-get`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  up2date
  : Support for Red Hat's proprietary `up2date` package update
    mechanism.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/up2date-nox`.  Default for `lsbdistrelease` == `2.1, 3, 4` and `operatingsystem` == `redhat, oel, ovm`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.

  urpmi
  : Support via `urpmi`.

    Required binaries: `rpm`, `urpmi`, `urpmq`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `mandriva, mandrake`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  yum
  : Support via `yum`.

    Required binaries: `yum`, `rpm`, `python`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `fedora, centos, redhat`.  Supported features: `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

  zypper
  : Support for SuSE `zypper` package manager. Found in SLES10sp2+ and SLES11

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/zypper`.  Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

responsefile
: A file containing any necessary answers to questions asked by
  the package.  This is currently used on Solaris and Debian.  The
  value will be validated according to system rules, but it should
  generally be a fully qualified path.

root
: A read-only parameter set by the package.

source
: Where to find the actual package.  This must be a local file
  (or on a network file system) or a URL that your specific
  packaging type understands; Puppet will not retrieve files for you,
  although you can manage packages as `file` resources.

status
: A read-only parameter set by the package.

type
: Deprecated form of `provider`.

vendor
: A read-only parameter set by the package.




----------------

### resources

This is a metatype that can manage other resource types.  Any
metaparams specified here will be passed on to any generated resources,
so you can purge umanaged resources but set `noop` to true so the
purging is only logged and does not actually happen.

#### Parameters


name
: The name of the type to be managed.

purge
: Purge unmanaged resources.  This will delete any resource
  that is not specified in your configuration
  and is not required by any specified resources.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

unless_system_user
: This keeps system users from being purged.  By default, it
  does not purge users whose UIDs are less than or equal to 500, but you can specify
  a different UID as the inclusive limit.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.  Values can match `/^\d+$/`.




----------------

### router

Manages connected router.

#### Parameters


url
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  An SSH or telnet URL at which to access the router, in the form
  `ssh://user:pass:enable@host/` or `telnet://user:pass:enable@host/`.




----------------

### schedule

Define schedules for Puppet. Resources can be limited to a schedule by using the
[`schedule`](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/metaparameter.html#schedule)
metaparameter.

Currently, **schedules can only be used to stop a resource from being
applied;** they cannot cause a resource to be applied when it otherwise
wouldn't be, and they cannot accurately specify a time when a resource
should run.

Every time Puppet applies its configuration, it will apply the
set of resources whose schedule does not eliminate them from
running right then, but there is currently no system in place to
guarantee that a given resource runs at a given time.  If you
specify a very  restrictive schedule and Puppet happens to run at a
time within that schedule, then the resources will get applied;
otherwise, that work may never get done.

Thus, it is advisable to use wider scheduling (e.g., over a couple of
hours) combined with periods and repetitions.  For instance, if you
wanted to restrict certain resources to only running once, between
the hours of two and 4 AM, then you would use this schedule:

    schedule { 'maint':
      range  => "2 - 4",
      period => daily,
      repeat => 1,
    }

With this schedule, the first time that Puppet runs between 2 and 4 AM,
all resources with this schedule will get applied, but they won't
get applied again between 2 and 4 because they will have already
run once that day, and they won't get applied outside that schedule
because they will be outside the scheduled range.

Puppet automatically creates a schedule for each of the valid periods
with the same name as that period (e.g., hourly and daily).
Additionally, a schedule named `puppet` is created and used as the
default, with the following attributes:

    schedule { 'puppet':
      period => hourly,
      repeat => 2,
    }

This will cause resources to be applied every 30 minutes by default.


#### Parameters


name
: The name of the schedule.  This name is used to retrieve the
  schedule when assigning it to an object:

      schedule { 'daily':
        period => daily,
        range  => "2 - 4",
      }

      exec { "/usr/bin/apt-get update":
        schedule => 'daily',
      }

period
: The period of repetition for a resource. The default is for a resource
  to get applied every time Puppet runs.

  Note that the period defines how often a given resource will get
  applied but not when; if you would like to restrict the hours
  that a given resource can be applied (e.g., only at night during
  a maintenance window), then use the `range` attribute.

  If the provided periods are not sufficient, you can provide a
  value to the *repeat* attribute, which will cause Puppet to
  schedule the affected resources evenly in the period the
  specified number of times.  Take this schedule:

      schedule { 'veryoften':
        period => hourly,
        repeat => 6,
      }

  This can cause Puppet to apply that resource up to every 10 minutes.

  At the moment, Puppet cannot guarantee that level of
  repetition; that is, it can run up to every 10 minutes, but
  internal factors might prevent it from actually running that
  often (e.g., long-running Puppet runs will squash conflictingly scheduled runs).

  See the `periodmatch` attribute for tuning whether to match
  times by their distance apart or by their specific value.
    Valid values are `hourly`, `daily`, `weekly`, `monthly`, `never`.

periodmatch
: Whether periods should be matched by number (e.g., the two times
  are in the same hour) or by distance (e.g., the two times are
  60 minutes apart).  Valid values are `number`, `distance`.

range
: The earliest and latest that a resource can be applied.  This is
  always a hyphen-separated range within a 24 hour period, and hours
  must be specified in numbers between 0 and 23, inclusive.  Minutes and
  seconds can optionally be provided, using the normal colon as a
  separator. For instance:

      schedule { 'maintenance':
        range => "1:30 - 4:30",
      }

  This is mostly useful for restricting certain resources to being
  applied in maintenance windows or during off-peak hours. Multiple
  ranges can be applied in array context.

repeat
: How often a given resource may be applied in this schedule's `period`.
  Defaults to 1; must be an integer.




----------------

### scheduled_task

Installs and manages Windows Scheduled Tasks.  All attributes
except `name`, `command`, and `trigger` are optional; see the description
of the `trigger` attribute for details on setting schedules.

#### Parameters


arguments
: Any arguments or flags that should be passed to the command. Multiple arguments
  should be specified as a space-separated string.

command
: The full path to the application to run, without any arguments.

enabled
: Whether the triggers for this task should be enabled. This attribute
  affects every trigger for the task; triggers cannot be enabled or
  disabled individually.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

name
: The name assigned to the scheduled task.  This will uniquely
  identify the task on the system.

password
: The password for the user specified in the 'user' attribute.
  This is only used if specifying a user other than 'SYSTEM'.
  Since there is no way to retrieve the password used to set the
  account information for a task, this parameter will not be used
  to determine if a scheduled task is in sync or not.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `scheduled_task`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  win32_taskscheduler
  : This provider uses the win32-taskscheduler gem to manage scheduled
    tasks on Windows.

    Puppet requires version 0.2.1 or later of the win32-taskscheduler gem;
    previous versions can cause "Could not evaluate: The operation completed
    successfully" errors.

    Default for `operatingsystem` == `windows`.

trigger
: One or more triggers defining when the task should run. A single trigger is
  represented as a hash, and multiple triggers can be specified with an array of
  hashes.

  A trigger can contain the following keys:

  * For all triggers:
      * `schedule` **(Required)** --- The schedule type. Valid values are
        `daily`, `weekly`, `monthly`, or `once`.
      * `start_time` **(Required)** --- The time of day when the trigger should
        first become active. Several time formats will work, but we
        suggest 24-hour time formatted as HH:MM.
      * `start_date` ---  The date when the trigger should first become active.
        Defaults to the current date. You should format dates as YYYY-MM-DD,
        although other date formats may work. (Under the hood, this uses `Date.parse`.)
  * For daily triggers:
      * `every` --- How often the task should run, as a number of days. Defaults
        to 1. ("2" means every other day, "3" means every three days, etc.)
  * For weekly triggers:
      * `every` --- How often the task should run, as a number of weeks. Defaults
        to 1. ("2" means every other week, "3" means every three weeks, etc.)
      * `day_of_week` --- Which days of the week the task should run, as an array.
        Defaults to all days. Each day must be one of `mon`, `tues`,
        `wed`, `thurs`, `fri`, `sat`, `sun`, or `all`.
  * For monthly-by-date triggers:
      * `months` --- Which months the task should run, as an array. Defaults to
        all months. Each month must be an integer between 1 and 12.
      * `on` **(Required)** --- Which days of the month the task should run,
        as an array. Each day must beeither an integer between 1 and 31,
        or the special value `last,` which is always the last day of the month.
  * For monthly-by-weekday triggers:
      * `months` --- Which months the task should run, as an array. Defaults to
        all months. Each month must be an integer between 1 and 12.
      * `day_of_week` **(Required)** --- Which day of the week the task should
        run, as an array with only one element. Each day must be one of `mon`,
        `tues`, `wed`, `thurs`, `fri`, `sat`, `sun`, or `all`.
      * `which_occurrence` **(Required)** --- The occurrence of the chosen weekday
        when the task should run. Must be one of `first`, `second`, `third`,
        `fourth`, `fifth`, or `last`.

  Examples:

      # Run at 8am on the 1st, 15th, and last day of the month in January, March,
      # May, July, September, and November, starting after August 31st, 2011.
      trigger => {
        schedule   => monthly,
        start_date => '2011-08-31',   # Defaults to 'today'
        start_time => '08:00',        # Must be specified
        months     => [1,3,5,7,9,11], # Defaults to all
        on         => [1, 15, last],  # Must be specified
      }

      # Run at 8am on the first Monday of the month for January, March, and May,
      # starting after August 31st, 2011.
      trigger => {
        schedule         => monthly,
        start_date       => '2011-08-31', # Defaults to 'today'
        start_time       => '08:00',      # Must be specified
        months           => [1,3,5],      # Defaults to all
        which_occurrence => first,        # Must be specified
        day_of_week      => [mon],        # Must be specified
      }

user
: The user to run the scheduled task as.  Please note that not
  all security configurations will allow running a scheduled task
  as 'SYSTEM', and saving the scheduled task under these
  conditions will fail with a reported error of 'The operation
  completed successfully'.  It is recommended that you either
  choose another user to run the scheduled task, or alter the
  security policy to allow v1 scheduled tasks to run as the
  'SYSTEM' account.  Defaults to 'SYSTEM'.

working_dir
: The full path of the directory in which to start the command.




----------------

### selboolean

Manages SELinux booleans on systems with SELinux support.  The supported booleans
are any of the ones found in `/selinux/booleans/`.

#### Parameters


name
: The name of the SELinux boolean to be managed.

persistent
: If set true, SELinux booleans will be written to disk and persist accross reboots.
  The default is `false`.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `selboolean`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  getsetsebool
  : Manage SELinux booleans using the getsebool and setsebool binaries.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/getsebool`, `/usr/sbin/setsebool`.

value
: Whether the the SELinux boolean should be enabled or disabled.  Valid values are `on`, `off`.




----------------

### selmodule

Manages loading and unloading of SELinux policy modules
on the system.  Requires SELinux support.  See man semodule(8)
for more information on SELinux policy modules.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the file containing this SELinux
policy module (which is either explicitly specified in the `selmodulepath`
attribute or will be found at {`selmoduledir`}/{`name`}.pp), the selmodule
resource will autorequire that file.

#### Parameters


ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

name
: The name of the SELinux policy to be managed.  You should not
  include the customary trailing .pp extension.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `selmodule`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  semodule
  : Manage SELinux policy modules using the semodule binary.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/semodule`.

selmoduledir
: The directory to look for the compiled pp module file in.
  Currently defaults to `/usr/share/selinux/targeted`.  If the
  `selmodulepath` attribute is not specified, Puppet will expect to find
  the module in `<selmoduledir>/<name>.pp`, where `name` is the value of the
  `name` parameter.

selmodulepath
: The full path to the compiled .pp policy module.  You only need to use
  this if the module file is not in the `selmoduledir` directory.

syncversion
: If set to `true`, the policy will be reloaded if the
  version found in the on-disk file differs from the loaded
  version.  If set to `false` (the default) the the only check
  that will be made is if the policy is loaded at all or not.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.




----------------

### service

Manage running services.  Service support unfortunately varies
widely by platform --- some platforms have very little if any concept of a
running service, and some have a very codified and powerful concept.
Puppet's service support is usually capable of doing the right thing, but
the more information you can provide, the better behaviour you will get.

Puppet 2.7 and newer expect init scripts to have a working status command.
If this isn't the case for any of your services' init scripts, you will
need to set `hasstatus` to false and possibly specify a custom status
command in the `status` attribute.

Note that if a `service` receives an event from another resource,
the service will get restarted. The actual command to restart the
service depends on the platform. You can provide an explicit command for
restarting with the `restart` attribute, or you can set `hasrestart` to
true to use the init script's restart command; if you do neither, the
service's stop and start commands will be used.

#### Features

- *controllable*: The provider uses a control variable.
- *enableable*: The provider can enable and disable the service
- *refreshable*: The provider can restart the service.


Provider    | controllable | enableable | refreshable |
----------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------- |
base        |              |            | *X*         |
bsd         |              | *X*        | *X*         |
daemontools |              | *X*        | *X*         |
debian      |              | *X*        | *X*         |
freebsd     |              | *X*        | *X*         |
gentoo      |              | *X*        | *X*         |
init        |              |            | *X*         |
launchd     |              | *X*        | *X*         |
openrc      |              | *X*        | *X*         |
redhat      |              | *X*        | *X*         |
runit       |              | *X*        | *X*         |
service     |              |            | *X*         |
smf         |              | *X*        | *X*         |
src         |              |            | *X*         |
systemd     |              | *X*        | *X*         |
upstart     |              | *X*        | *X*         |
windows     |              | *X*        | *X*         |

#### Parameters


binary
: The path to the daemon.  This is only used for
  systems that do not support init scripts.  This binary will be
  used to start the service if no `start` parameter is
  provided.

control
: The control variable used to manage services (originally for HP-UX).
  Defaults to the upcased service name plus `START` replacing dots with
  underscores, for those providers that support the `controllable` feature.

enable
: Whether a service should be enabled to start at boot.
  This property behaves quite differently depending on the platform;
  wherever possible, it relies on local tools to enable or disable
  a given service.  Valid values are `true`, `false`, `manual`.  Requires features enableable.

ensure
: Whether a service should be running.  Valid values are `stopped` (also called `false`), `running` (also called `true`).

hasrestart
: Specify that an init script has a `restart` command.  If this is
  false and you do not specify a command in the `restart` attribute,
  the init script's `stop` and `start` commands will be used. Defaults
  to true; note that this is a change from earlier versions of Puppet.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

hasstatus
: Declare whether the service's init script has a functional status
  command; defaults to `true`. This attribute's default value changed in
  Puppet 2.7.0.

  The init script's status command must return 0 if the service is
  running and a nonzero value otherwise. Ideally, these exit codes
  should conform to [the LSB's specification][lsb-exit-codes] for init
  script status actions, but Puppet only considers the difference
  between 0 and nonzero to be relevant.

  If a service's init script does not support any kind of status command,
  you should set `hasstatus` to false and either provide a specific
  command using the `status` attribute or expect that Puppet will look for
  the service name in the process table. Be aware that 'virtual' init
  scripts (like 'network' under Red Hat systems) will respond poorly to
  refresh events from other resources if you override the default behavior
  without providing a status command.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

manifest
: Specify a command to config a service, or a path to a manifest to do so.

name
: The name of the service to run.

  This name is used to find the service; on platforms where services
  have short system names and long display names, this should be the
  short name. (To take an example from Windows, you would use "wuauserv"
  rather than "Automatic Updates.")

path
: The search path for finding init scripts.  Multiple values should
  be separated by colons or provided as an array.

pattern
: The pattern to search for in the process table.
  This is used for stopping services on platforms that do not
  support init scripts, and is also used for determining service
  status on those service whose init scripts do not include a status
  command.

  Defaults to the name of the service. The pattern can be a simple string
  or any legal Ruby pattern.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `service`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  base
  : The simplest form of Unix service support.

    You have to specify enough about your service for this to work; the
    minimum you can specify is a binary for starting the process, and this
    same binary will be searched for in the process table to stop the
    service.  As with `init`-style services, it is preferable to specify start,
    stop, and status commands.



    Required binaries: `kill`.  Supported features: `refreshable`.

  bsd
  : FreeBSD's (and probably NetBSD's?) form of `init`-style service management.

    Uses `rc.conf.d` for service enabling and disabling.



    Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  daemontools
  : Daemontools service management.

    This provider manages daemons supervised by D.J. Bernstein daemontools.
    When detecting the service directory it will check, in order of preference:

    * `/service`
    * `/etc/service`
    * `/var/lib/svscan`

    The daemon directory should be in one of the following locations:

    * `/var/lib/service`
    * `/etc`

    ...or this can be overriden in the resource's attributes:

        service { "myservice":
          provider => "daemontools",
          path     => "/path/to/daemons",
        }

    This provider supports out of the box:

    * start/stop (mapped to enable/disable)
    * enable/disable
    * restart
    * status

    If a service has `ensure => "running"`, it will link /path/to/daemon to
    /path/to/service, which will automatically enable the service.

    If a service has `ensure => "stopped"`, it will only shut down the service, not
    remove the `/path/to/service` link.



    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/svc`, `/usr/bin/svstat`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  debian
  : Debian's form of `init`-style management.

    The only differences from `init` are support for enabling and disabling
    services via `update-rc.d` and the ability to determine enabled status via
    `invoke-rc.d`.



    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/update-rc.d`, `/usr/sbin/invoke-rc.d`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `debian, ubuntu`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  freebsd
  : Provider for FreeBSD. Uses the `rcvar` argument of init scripts and parses/edits rc files.

    Default for `operatingsystem` == `freebsd`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  gentoo
  : Gentoo's form of `init`-style service management.

    Uses `rc-update` for service enabling and disabling.



    Required binaries: `/sbin/rc-update`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  init
  : Standard `init`-style service management.

    Supported features: `refreshable`.

  launchd
  : This provider manages jobs with `launchd`, which is the default service
    framework for Mac OS X (and may be available for use on other platforms).

    For `launchd` documentation, see:

    * <http://developer.apple.com/macosx/launchd.html>
    * <http://launchd.macosforge.org/>

    This provider reads plists out of the following directories:

    * `/System/Library/LaunchDaemons`
    * `/System/Library/LaunchAgents`
    * `/Library/LaunchDaemons`
    * `/Library/LaunchAgents`

    ...and builds up a list of services based upon each plist's "Label" entry.

    This provider supports:

    * ensure => running/stopped,
    * enable => true/false
    * status
    * restart

    Here is how the Puppet states correspond to `launchd` states:

    * stopped --- job unloaded
    * started --- job loaded
    * enabled --- 'Disable' removed from job plist file
    * disabled --- 'Disable' added to job plist file

    Note that this allows you to do something `launchctl` can't do, which is to
    be in a state of "stopped/enabled" or "running/disabled".

    Note that this provider does not support overriding 'restart' or 'status'.



    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/sw_vers`, `/bin/launchctl`, `/usr/bin/plutil`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  openrc
  : Support for Gentoo's OpenRC initskripts

    Uses rc-update, rc-status and rc-service to manage services.



    Required binaries: `/sbin/rc-service`, `/bin/rc-status`, `/sbin/rc-update`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `funtoo`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  redhat
  : Red Hat's (and probably many others') form of `init`-style service
    management. Uses `chkconfig` for service enabling and disabling.



    Required binaries: `/sbin/service`, `/sbin/chkconfig`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `redhat, fedora, suse, centos, sles, oel, ovm`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  runit
  : Runit service management.

    This provider manages daemons running supervised by Runit.
    When detecting the service directory it will check, in order of preference:

    * `/service`
    * `/var/service`
    * `/etc/service`

    The daemon directory should be in one of the following locations:

    * `/etc/sv`

    or this can be overriden in the service resource parameters::

        service { "myservice":
          provider => "runit",
          path => "/path/to/daemons",
        }

    This provider supports out of the box:

    * start/stop
    * enable/disable
    * restart
    * status




    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/sv`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  service
  : The simplest form of service support.

    Supported features: `refreshable`.

  smf
  : Support for Sun's new Service Management Framework.

    Starting a service is effectively equivalent to enabling it, so there is
    only support for starting and stopping services, which also enables and
    disables them, respectively.

    By specifying `manifest => "/path/to/service.xml"`, the SMF manifest will
    be imported if it does not exist.



    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/svcadm`, `/usr/bin/svcs`, `/usr/sbin/svccfg`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  src
  : Support for AIX's System Resource controller.

    Services are started/stopped based on the `stopsrc` and `startsrc`
    commands, and some services can be refreshed with `refresh` command.

    Enabling and disabling services is not supported, as it requires
    modifications to `/etc/inittab`. Starting and stopping groups of subsystems
    is not yet supported.


    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/refresh`, `/usr/bin/stopsrc`, `/usr/bin/startsrc`, `/usr/bin/lssrc`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `aix`.  Supported features: `refreshable`.

  systemd
  : Manages `systemd` services using `/bin/systemctl`.

    Required binaries: `/bin/systemctl`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  upstart
  : Ubuntu service management with `upstart`.

    This provider manages `upstart` jobs, which have replaced `initd` services
    on Ubuntu. For `upstart` documentation, see <http://upstart.ubuntu.com/>.


    Required binaries: `/sbin/start`, `/sbin/stop`, `/sbin/status`, `/sbin/initctl`, `/sbin/restart`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `ubuntu`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

  windows
  : Support for Windows Service Control Manager (SCM). This provider can
    start, stop, enable, and disable services, and the SCM provides working
    status methods for all services.

    Control of service groups (dependencies) is not yet supported, nor is running
    services as a specific user.


    Required binaries: `net.exe`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `windows`.  Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.

restart
: Specify a *restart* command manually.  If left
  unspecified, the service will be stopped and then started.

start
: Specify a *start* command manually.  Most service subsystems
  support a `start` command, so this will not need to be
  specified.

status
: Specify a *status* command manually.  This command must
  return 0 if the service is running and a nonzero value otherwise.
  Ideally, these exit codes should conform to [the LSB's
  specification][lsb-exit-codes] for init script status actions, but
  Puppet only considers the difference between 0 and nonzero to be
  relevant.

  If left unspecified, the status of the service will be determined
  automatically, usually by looking for the service in the process
  table.

  [lsb-exit-codes]: http://refspecs.freestandards.org/LSB_3.1.1/LSB-Core-generic/LSB-Core-generic/iniscrptact.html

stop
: Specify a *stop* command manually.




----------------

### ssh_authorized_key

Manages SSH authorized keys. Currently only type 2 keys are
supported.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user account in which this
SSH key should be installed, the `ssh_authorized_key` resource will autorequire
that user.

#### Parameters


ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

key
: The key itself; generally a long string of hex digits.

name
: The SSH key comment. This attribute is currently used as a
  system-wide primary key and therefore has to be unique.

options
: Key options, see sshd(8) for possible values. Multiple values
  should be specified as an array.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `ssh_authorized_key`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  parsed
  : Parse and generate authorized_keys files for SSH.

target
: The absolute filename in which to store the SSH key. This
  property is optional and should only be used in cases where keys
  are stored in a non-standard location (i.e.` not in
  `~user/.ssh/authorized_keys`).

type
: The encryption type used: ssh-dss or ssh-rsa.  Valid values are `ssh-dss` (also called `dsa`), `ssh-rsa` (also called `rsa`), `ecdsa-sha2-nistp256`, `ecdsa-sha2-nistp384`, `ecdsa-sha2-nistp521`.

user
: The user account in which the SSH key should be installed.
  The resource will automatically depend on this user.




----------------

### sshkey

Installs and manages ssh host keys.  At this point, this type
only knows how to install keys into `/etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts`.  See
the `ssh_authorized_key` type to manage authorized keys.

#### Parameters


ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

host_aliases
: Any aliases the host might have.  Multiple values must be
  specified as an array.

key
: The key itself; generally a long string of hex digits.

name
: The host name that the key is associated with.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `sshkey`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  parsed
  : Parse and generate host-wide known hosts files for SSH.

target
: The file in which to store the ssh key.  Only used by
  the `parsed` provider.

type
: The encryption type used.  Probably ssh-dss or ssh-rsa.  Valid values are `ssh-dss` (also called `dsa`), `ssh-rsa` (also called `rsa`), `ecdsa-sha2-nistp256`, `ecdsa-sha2-nistp384`, `ecdsa-sha2-nistp521`.




----------------

### stage

A resource type for specifying run stages.  The actual stage should
be specified on resources:

    class { foo: stage => pre }

And you must manually control stage order:

    stage { pre: before => Stage[main] }

You automatically get a 'main' stage created, and by default all resources
get inserted into that stage.

You can only set stages on class resources, not normal builtin resources.

#### Parameters


name
: The name of the stage. This will be used as the 'stage' for each resource.




----------------

### tidy

Remove unwanted files based on specific criteria.  Multiple
criteria are OR'd together, so a file that is too large but is not
old enough will still get tidied.

If you don't specify either `age` or `size`, then all files will
be removed.

This resource type works by generating a file resource for every file
that should be deleted and then letting that resource perform the
actual deletion.


#### Parameters


age
: Tidy files whose age is equal to or greater than
  the specified time.  You can choose seconds, minutes,
  hours, days, or weeks by specifying the first letter of any
  of those words (e.g., '1w').

  Specifying 0 will remove all files.

backup
: Whether tidied files should be backed up.  Any values are passed
  directly to the file resources used for actual file deletion, so consult
  the `file` type's backup documentation to determine valid values.

matches
: One or more (shell type) file glob patterns, which restrict
  the list of files to be tidied to those whose basenames match
  at least one of the patterns specified. Multiple patterns can
  be specified using an array.

  Example:

      tidy { "/tmp":
        age     => "1w",
        recurse => 1,
        matches => [ "[0-9]pub*.tmp", "*.temp", "tmpfile?" ]
      }

  This removes files from `/tmp` if they are one week old or older,
  are not in a subdirectory and match one of the shell globs given.

  Note that the patterns are matched against the basename of each
  file -- that is, your glob patterns should not have any '/'
  characters in them, since you are only specifying against the last
  bit of the file.

  Finally, note that you must now specify a non-zero/non-false value
  for recurse if matches is used, as matches only apply to files found
  by recursion (there's no reason to use static patterns match against
  a statically determined path).  Requiering explicit recursion clears
  up a common source of confusion.

path
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The path to the file or directory to manage.  Must be fully
  qualified.

recurse
: If target is a directory, recursively descend
  into the directory looking for files to tidy.  Valid values are `true`, `false`, `inf`.  Values can match `/^[0-9]+$/`.

rmdirs
: Tidy directories in addition to files; that is, remove
  directories whose age is older than the specified criteria.
  This will only remove empty directories, so all contained
  files must also be tidied before a directory gets removed.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

size
: Tidy files whose size is equal to or greater than
  the specified size.  Unqualified values are in kilobytes, but
  *b*, *k*, *m*, *g*, and *t* can be appended to specify *bytes*,
  *kilobytes*, *megabytes*, *gigabytes*, and *terabytes*, respectively.
  Only the first character is significant, so the full word can also
  be used.

type
: Set the mechanism for determining age. Default: atime.  Valid values are `atime`, `mtime`, `ctime`.




----------------

### user

Manage users.  This type is mostly built to manage system
users, so it is lacking some features useful for managing normal
users.

This resource type uses the prescribed native tools for creating
groups and generally uses POSIX APIs for retrieving information
about them.  It does not directly modify `/etc/passwd` or anything.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user's primary group (as
provided in the `gid` attribute), the user resource will autorequire
that group. If Puppet is managing any role accounts corresponding to the
user's roles, the user resource will autorequire those role accounts.

#### Features

- *allows_duplicates*: The provider supports duplicate users with the same UID.
- *manages_aix_lam*: The provider can manage AIX Loadable Authentication Module (LAM) system.
- *manages_expiry*: The provider can manage the expiry date for a user.
- *manages_homedir*: The provider can create and remove home directories.
- *manages_password_age*: The provider can set age requirements and restrictions for passwords.
- *manages_passwords*: The provider can modify user passwords, by accepting a password hash.
- *manages_solaris_rbac*: The provider can manage roles and normal users
- *system_users*: The provider allows you to create system users with lower UIDs.


Provider         | allows duplicates | manages aix lam | manages expiry | manages homedir | manages password age | manages passwords | manages solaris rbac | system users |
---------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | -------------- | --------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------ |
aix              |                   | *X*             | *X*            | *X*             | *X*                  | *X*               |                      |              |
directoryservice |                   |                 |                |                 |                      | *X*               |                      |              |
hpuxuseradd      | *X*               |                 |                | *X*             |                      |                   |                      |              |
ldap             |                   |                 |                |                 |                      | *X*               |                      |              |
pw               | *X*               |                 | *X*            | *X*             |                      | *X*               |                      |              |
user_role_add    | *X*               |                 |                | *X*             | *X*                  | *X*               | *X*                  |              |
useradd          | *X*               | *X*             | *X*            | *X*             |                      | *X*               |                      | *X*          |
windows_adsi     |                   |                 |                | *X*             |                      | *X*               |                      |              |

#### Parameters


allowdupe
: Whether to allow duplicate UIDs. Defaults to `false`.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

attribute_membership
: Whether specified attribute value pairs should be treated as the
  **complete list** (`inclusive`) or the **minimum list** (`minimum`) of
  attribute/value pairs for the user. Defaults to `minimum`.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

attributes
: Specify AIX attributes for the user in an array of attribute = value pairs.  Requires features manages_aix_lam.

auth_membership
: Whether specified auths should be considered the **complete list**
  (`inclusive`) or the **minimum list** (`minimum`) of auths the user
  has. Defaults to `minimum`.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

auths
: The auths the user has.  Multiple auths should be
  specified as an array.  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

comment
: A description of the user.  Generally the user's full name.

ensure
: The basic state that the object should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`, `role`.

expiry
: The expiry date for this user. Must be provided in
  a zero-padded YYYY-MM-DD format --- e.g. 2010-02-19.  Requires features manages_expiry.

gid
: The user's primary group.  Can be specified numerically or by name.

  Note that users on Windows systems do not have a primary group; manage groups
  with the `groups` attribute instead.

groups
: The groups to which the user belongs.  The primary group should
  not be listed, and groups should be identified by name rather than by
  GID.  Multiple groups should be specified as an array.

home
: The home directory of the user.  The directory must be created
  separately and is not currently checked for existence.

ia_load_module
: The name of the I&A module to use to manage this user.  Requires features manages_aix_lam.

key_membership
: Whether specified key/value pairs should be considered the
  **complete list** (`inclusive`) or the **minimum list** (`minimum`) of
  the user's attributes. Defaults to `minimum`.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

keys
: Specify user attributes in an array of key = value pairs.  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

managehome
: Whether to manage the home directory when managing the user.
  Defaults to `false`.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

membership
: Whether specified groups should be considered the **complete list**
  (`inclusive`) or the **minimum list** (`minimum`) of groups to which
  the user belongs. Defaults to `minimum`.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

name
: The user name. While naming limitations vary by operating system,
  it is advisable to restrict names to the lowest common denominator,
  which is a maximum of 8 characters beginning with a letter.

  Note that Puppet considers user names to be case-sensitive, regardless
  of the platform's own rules; be sure to always use the same case when
  referring to a given user.

password
: The user's password, in whatever encrypted format the local
  system requires.

  * Most modern Unix-like systems use salted SHA1 password hashes. You can use
    Puppet's built-in `sha1` function to generate a hash from a password.
  * Mac OS X 10.5 and 10.6 also use salted SHA1 hashes.
  * Mac OS X 10.7 (Lion) uses salted SHA512 hashes. The Puppet Labs [stdlib][]
    module contains a `str2saltedsha512` function which can generate password
    hashes for Lion.
  * Windows passwords can only be managed in cleartext, as there is no Windows API
    for setting the password hash.

  [stdlib]: https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib/

  Be sure to enclose any value that includes a dollar sign ($) in single
  quotes (') to avoid accidental variable interpolation.  Requires features manages_passwords.

password_max_age
: The maximum number of days a password may be used before it must be changed.  Requires features manages_password_age.

password_min_age
: The minimum number of days a password must be used before it may be changed.  Requires features manages_password_age.

profile_membership
: Whether specified roles should be treated as the **complete list**
  (`inclusive`) or the **minimum list** (`minimum`) of roles
  of which the user is a member. Defaults to `minimum`.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

profiles
: The profiles the user has.  Multiple profiles should be
  specified as an array.  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

project
: The name of the project associated with a user.  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `user`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  aix
  : User management for AIX.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/chuser`, `/usr/sbin/lsuser`, `/usr/sbin/lsgroup`, `/usr/sbin/rmuser`, `/bin/chpasswd`, `/usr/bin/mkuser`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `aix`.  Supported features: `manages_aix_lam`, `manages_expiry`, `manages_homedir`, `manages_password_age`, `manages_passwords`.

  directoryservice
  : User management using DirectoryService on OS X.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/dscl`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.  Supported features: `manages_passwords`.

  hpuxuseradd
  : User management for HP-UX. This provider uses the undocumented `-F`
    switch to HP-UX's special `usermod` binary to work around the fact that
    its standard `usermod` cannot make changes while the user is logged in.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sam/lbin/usermod.sam`, `/usr/sam/lbin/userdel.sam`, `/usr/sbin/useradd`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `hp-ux`.  Supported features: `allows_duplicates`, `manages_homedir`.

  ldap
  : User management via LDAP.

    This provider requires that you have valid values for all of the
    LDAP-related settings in `puppet.conf`, including `ldapbase`.  You will
    almost definitely need settings for `ldapuser` and `ldappassword` in order
    for your clients to write to LDAP.

    Note that this provider will automatically generate a UID for you if
    you do not specify one, but it is a potentially expensive operation,
    as it iterates across all existing users to pick the appropriate next one.

    Supported features: `manages_passwords`.

  pw
  : User management via `pw` on FreeBSD.

    Required binaries: `pw`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `freebsd`.  Supported features: `allows_duplicates`, `manages_expiry`, `manages_homedir`, `manages_passwords`.

  user_role_add
  : User and role management on Solaris, via `useradd` and `roleadd`.

    Required binaries: `passwd`, `roledel`, `rolemod`, `usermod`, `userdel`, `roleadd`, `useradd`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.  Supported features: `allows_duplicates`, `manages_homedir`, `manages_password_age`, `manages_passwords`, `manages_solaris_rbac`.

  useradd
  : User management via `useradd` and its ilk.  Note that you will need to
    install Ruby's shadow password library (often known as `ruby-libshadow`)
    if you wish to manage user passwords.

    Required binaries: `chage`, `usermod`, `userdel`, `useradd`.  Supported features: `allows_duplicates`, `manages_expiry`, `manages_homedir`, `system_users`.

  windows_adsi
  : Local user management for Windows.

    Default for `operatingsystem` == `windows`.  Supported features: `manages_homedir`, `manages_passwords`.

role_membership
: Whether specified roles should be considered the **complete list**
  (`inclusive`) or the **minimum list** (`minimum`) of roles the user
  has. Defaults to `minimum`.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

roles
: The roles the user has.  Multiple roles should be
  specified as an array.  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

shell
: The user's login shell.  The shell must exist and be
  executable.

  This attribute cannot be managed on Windows systems.

system
: Whether the user is a system user, according to the OS's criteria;
  on most platforms, a UID less than or equal to 500 indicates a system
  user. Defaults to `false`.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

uid
: The user ID; must be specified numerically. If no user ID is
  specified when creating a new user, then one will be chosen
  automatically. This will likely result in the same user having
  different UIDs on different systems, which is not recommended. This is
  especially noteworthy when managing the same user on both Darwin and
  other platforms, since Puppet does UID generation on Darwin, but
  the underlying tools do so on other platforms.

  On Windows, this property is read-only and will return the user's
  security identifier (SID).




----------------

### vlan

Manages a VLAN on a router or switch.

#### Parameters


description
: The VLAN's name.

device_url
: The URL of the router or switch maintaining this VLAN.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

name
: The numeric VLAN ID.  Values can match `/^\d+/`.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `vlan`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  cisco
  : Cisco switch/router provider for vlans.




----------------

### yumrepo

The client-side description of a yum repository. Repository
configurations are found by parsing `/etc/yum.conf` and
the files indicated by the `reposdir` option in that file
(see `yum.conf(5)` for details).

Most parameters are identical to the ones documented
in the `yum.conf(5)` man page.

Continuation lines that yum supports (for the `baseurl`, for example)
are not supported. This type does not attempt to read or verify the
exinstence of files listed in the `include` attribute.

#### Parameters


baseurl
: The URL for this repository. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

cost
: Cost of this repository.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/\d+/`.

descr
: A human-readable description of the repository.
  This corresponds to the name parameter in `yum.conf(5)`.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

enabled
: Whether this repository is enabled, as represented by a
  `0` or `1`. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

enablegroups
: Whether yum will allow the use of package groups for this
  repository, as represented by a `0` or `1`. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

exclude
: List of shell globs. Matching packages will never be
  considered in updates or installs for this repo.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

failovermethod
: The failover methode for this repository; should be either
  `roundrobin` or `priority`. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/roundrobin|priority/`.

gpgcheck
: Whether to check the GPG signature on packages installed
  from this repository, as represented by a `0` or `1`.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

gpgkey
: The URL for the GPG key with which packages from this
  repository are signed. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

http_caching
: What to cache from this repository. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/packages|all|none/`.

include
: The URL of a remote file containing additional yum configuration
  settings. Puppet does not check for this file's existence or validity.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

includepkgs
: List of shell globs. If this is set, only packages
  matching one of the globs will be considered for
  update or install from this repo. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

keepalive
: Whether HTTP/1.1 keepalive should be used with this repository, as
  represented by a `0` or `1`. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

metadata_expire
: Number of seconds after which the metadata will expire.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/[0-9]+/`.

mirrorlist
: The URL that holds the list of mirrors for this repository.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

name
: The name of the repository.  This corresponds to the
  `repositoryid` parameter in `yum.conf(5)`.

priority
: Priority of this repository from 1-99. Requires that
  the `priorities` plugin is installed and enabled.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/[1-9][0-9]?/`.

protect
: Enable or disable protection for this repository. Requires
  that the `protectbase` plugin is installed and enabled.
  Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

proxy
: URL to the proxy server for this repository. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

proxy_password
: Password for this proxy. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

proxy_username
: Username for this proxy. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

timeout
: Number of seconds to wait for a connection before timing
  out. Set this to `absent` to remove it from the file completely.  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/[0-9]+/`.




----------------

### zfs

Manage zfs. Create destroy and set properties on zfs instances.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the zpool at the root of this zfs
instance, the zfs resource will autorequire it. If Puppet is managing any
parent zfs instances, the zfs resource will autorequire them.

#### Parameters


aclinherit
: The aclinherit property. Valid values are `discard`, `noallow`, `restricted`, `passthrough`, `passthrough-x`.

aclmode
: The aclmode property. Valid values are `discard`, `groupmask`, `passthrough`.

atime
: The atime property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.

canmount
: The canmount property. Valid values are `on`, `off`, `noauto`.

checksum
: The checksum property. Valid values are `on`, `off`, `fletcher2`, `fletcher4`, `sha256`.

compression
: The compression property. Valid values are `on`, `off`, `lzjb`, `gzip`, `gzip-[1-9]`, `zle`.

copies
: The copies property. Valid values are `1`, `2`, `3`.

devices
: The devices property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

exec
: The exec property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.

logbias
: The logbias property. Valid values are `latency`, `throughput`.

mountpoint
: The mountpoint property. Valid values are `<path>`, `legacy`, `none`.

name
: The full name for this filesystem (including the zpool).

nbmand
: The nbmand property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.

primarycache
: The primarycache property. Valid values are `all`, `none`, `metadata`.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `zfs`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  solaris
  : Provider for Solaris zfs.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/zfs`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.

quota
: The quota property. Valid values are `<size>`, `none`.

readonly
: The readonly property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.

recordsize
: The recordsize property. Valid values are powers of two between 512 and 128k.

refquota
: The refquota property. Valid values are `<size>`, `none`.

refreservation
: The refreservation property. Valid values are `<size>`, `none`.

reservation
: The reservation property. Valid values are `<size>`, `none`.

secondarycache
: The secondarycache property. Valid values are `all`, `none`, `metadata`.

setuid
: The setuid property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.

shareiscsi
: The shareiscsi property. Valid values are `on`, `off`, `type=<type>`.

sharenfs
: The sharenfs property. Valid values are `on`, `off`, share(1M) options

sharesmb
: The sharesmb property. Valid values are `on`, `off`, sharemgr(1M) options

snapdir
: The snapdir property. Valid values are `hidden`, `visible`.

version
: The version property. Valid values are `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`, `current`.

volsize
: The volsize property. Valid values are `<size>`

vscan
: The vscan property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.

xattr
: The xattr property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.

zoned
: The zoned property. Valid values are `on`, `off`.




----------------

### zone

Manages Solaris zones.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the directory specified as the root of
the zone's filesystem (with the `path` attribute), the zone resource will
autorequire that directory.

#### Parameters


autoboot
: Whether the zone should automatically boot.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

clone
: Instead of installing the zone, clone it from another zone.
  If the zone root resides on a zfs file system, a snapshot will be
  used to create the clone; if it resides on a ufs filesystem, a copy of the
  zone will be used. The zone from which you clone must not be running.

create_args
: Arguments to the `zonecfg` create command.  This can be used to create branded zones.

dataset
: The list of datasets delegated to the non-global zone from the
  global zone.  All datasets must be zfs filesystem names which are
  different from the mountpoint.

ensure
: The running state of the zone.  The valid states directly reflect
  the states that `zoneadm` provides.  The states are linear,
  in that a zone must be `configured`, then `installed`, and
  only then can be `running`.  Note also that `halt` is currently
  used to stop zones.

id
: The numerical ID of the zone.  This number is autogenerated
  and cannot be changed.

inherit
: The list of directories that the zone inherits from the global
  zone.  All directories must be fully qualified.

install_args
: Arguments to the `zoneadm` install command.  This can be used to create branded zones.

ip
: The IP address of the zone.  IP addresses must be specified
  with the interface, separated by a colon, e.g.: bge0:192.168.0.1.
  For multiple interfaces, specify them in an array.

iptype
: The IP stack type of the zone.  Valid values are `shared`, `exclusive`.

name
: The name of the zone.

path
: The root of the zone's filesystem.  Must be a fully qualified
  file name.  If you include `%s` in the path, then it will be
  replaced with the zone's name.  Currently, you cannot use
  Puppet to move a zone.

pool
: The resource pool for this zone.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `zone`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  solaris
  : Provider for Solaris Zones.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/zonecfg`, `/usr/sbin/zoneadm`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.

realhostname
: The actual hostname of the zone.

shares
: Number of FSS CPU shares allocated to the zone.

sysidcfg
: The text to go into the `sysidcfg` file when the zone is first
  booted.  The best way is to use a template:

      # $confdir/modules/site/templates/sysidcfg.erb
      system_locale=en_US
      timezone=GMT
      terminal=xterms
      security_policy=NONE
      root_password=<%= password %>
      timeserver=localhost
      name_service=DNS {domain_name=<%= domain %> name_server=<%= nameserver %>}
      network_interface=primary {hostname=<%= realhostname %>
        ip_address=<%= ip %>
        netmask=<%= netmask %>
        protocol_ipv6=no
        default_route=<%= defaultroute %>}
      nfs4_domain=dynamic

  And then call that:

      zone { myzone:
        ip           => "bge0:192.168.0.23",
        sysidcfg     => template("site/sysidcfg.erb"),
        path         => "/opt/zones/myzone",
        realhostname => "fully.qualified.domain.name"
      }

  The `sysidcfg` only matters on the first booting of the zone,
  so Puppet only checks for it at that time.




----------------

### zpool

Manage zpools. Create and delete zpools. The provider WILL NOT SYNC, only report differences.

Supports vdevs with mirrors, raidz, logs and spares.

#### Parameters


disk
: The disk(s) for this pool. Can be an array or a space separated string.

ensure
: The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

log
: Log disks for this pool. This type does not currently support mirroring of log disks.

mirror
: List of all the devices to mirror for this pool. Each mirror should be a
  space separated string:

      mirror => ["disk1 disk2", "disk3 disk4"],

pool
: (**Namevar:** If omitted, this parameter's value defaults to the resource's title.)

  The name for this pool.

provider
: The specific backend to use for this `zpool`
  resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
  discover the appropriate provider for your platform.
  Available providers are:

  solaris
  : Provider for Solaris zpool.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/zpool`.  Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.

raid_parity
: Determines parity when using the `raidz` parameter.

raidz
: List of all the devices to raid for this pool. Should be an array of
  space separated strings:

      raidz => ["disk1 disk2", "disk3 disk4"],

spare
: Spare disk(s) for this pool.




----------------

*This page autogenerated on Thu Sep 05 14:13:44 -0700 2013*
