---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 44f2fdad9d3a565123ceae69c267403981e0141a
title: 'Man Page: puppet file'
canonical: /puppet/latest/reference/man/file.html
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-file</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Retrieve and store files in a filebucket</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet file <var>action</var> [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand interacts with objects stored in a local or remote
filebucket. File objects are accessed by their MD5 sum; see the
examples for the relevant syntax.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
<dt>--extra HASH</dt><dd>A terminus can take additional arguments to refine the operation, which
are passed as an arbitrary hash to the back-end.  Anything passed as
the extra value is just send direct to the back-end.</dd>
<dt>--terminus TERMINUS</dt><dd><p>Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of data
(with the familiar actions of <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>, and <code>destroy</code>)
from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In Puppet parlance,
these backends are called terminuses.</p>

<p>Almost all indirected subsystems have a <code>rest</code> terminus that interacts
with the puppet master's data. Most of them have additional terminuses
for various local data models, which are in turn used by the indirected
subsystem on the puppet master whenever it receives a remote request.</p>

<p>The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the "Notes" section of this
face's manpage for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>download</code> - Download a file into the local filebucket.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet file download [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
( {md5}<var>checksum</var> | <var>puppet_url</var> )</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Downloads a file from the puppet master's filebucket and duplicates it in
the local filebucket. This action's checksum syntax differs from <code>find</code>'s,
and it can accept a &lt;puppet:///> URL.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>Nothing.</p></dd>
<dt><code>find</code> - Retrieve a file from the filebucket.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet file find [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] md5/<var>md5sum</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve a file from the filebucket.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>The file object with the specified checksum.</p>

<p>RENDERING ISSUES: Rendering as a string returns the contents of the
file object; rendering as yaml returns a hash of metadata about said
file, including but not limited to its contents. Rendering as json
is currently broken, and returns a hash containing only the contents
of the file.</p></dd>
<dt><code>info</code> - Print the default terminus class for this face.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet file info [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that different
run modes may have different default termini; when in doubt, specify the
run mode with the '--run_mode' option.</p></dd>
<dt><code>save</code> - API only: create or overwrite an object.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet file save [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>key</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>API only: create or overwrite an object. As the Faces framework does not
currently accept data from STDIN, save actions cannot currently be invoked
from the command line.</p></dd>
<dt><code>store</code> - Store a file in the local filebucket.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet file store [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>file</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Store a file in the local filebucket.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>Nothing.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>download</code></p>

<p>Download a file by URL:</p>

<p>$ puppet file download puppet:///modules/editors/vim/.vimrc</p>

<p>Download a file by MD5 sum:</p>

<p>$ puppet file download {md5}8f798d4e754db0ac89186bbaeaf0af18</p>

<p><code>find</code></p>

<p>Retrieve the contents of a file:</p>

<p>$ puppet file find md5/9aedba7f413c97dc65895b1cd9421f2c --render-as s</p>

<p><code>store</code></p>

<p>Store a file:</p>

<p>$ puppet file store /root/.bashrc</p>

<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>To retrieve the unmunged contents of a file, you must call find with
--render-as s. Rendering as yaml will return a hash of metadata
about the file, including its contents.</p>

<p>This subcommand does not interact with the <code>clientbucketdir</code> (the default
local filebucket for puppet agent); it interacts with the primary
"master"-type filebucket located in the <code>bucketdir</code>. If you wish to
interact with puppet agent's default filebucket, you'll need to set
the <var>--bucketdir</var> option appropriately when invoking actions.</p>

<p>This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>,
and <code>destroy</code> actions for an indirected subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for
this face include:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>file</code></li>
<li><code>rest</code></li>
<li><code>selector</code></li>
</ul>


<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Labs
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
