---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 44f2fdad9d3a565123ceae69c267403981e0141a
title: 'Man Page: puppet master'
canonical: /puppet/latest/reference/man/master.html
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-master</code> - <span class="man-whatis">The puppet master daemon</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>The central puppet server. Functions as a certificate authority by
default.</p>

<h2 id="USAGE">USAGE</h2>

<p>puppet master [-D|--daemonize|--no-daemonize] [-d|--debug] [-h|--help]
  [-l|--logdest syslog|<var>FILE</var>|console] [-v|--verbose] [-V|--version]
  [--compile <var>NODE-NAME</var>]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This command starts an instance of puppet master, running as a daemon
and using Ruby's built-in Webrick webserver. Puppet master can also be
managed by other application servers; when this is the case, this
executable is not used.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any Puppet setting that's valid in the configuration file is also a
valid long argument. For example, 'server' is a valid setting, so you can
specify '--server <var>servername</var>' as an argument. Boolean settings translate into
'--setting' and '--no-setting' pairs.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html for the
full list of acceptable settings. A commented list of all settings can also be
generated by running puppet master with '--genconfig'.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--daemonize</dt><dd><p>Send the process into the background. This is the default.
(This is a Puppet setting, and can go in puppet.conf. Note the special 'no-'
prefix for boolean settings on the command line.)</p></dd>
<dt>--no-daemonize</dt><dd><p>Do not send the process into the background.
(This is a Puppet setting, and can go in puppet.conf. Note the special 'no-'
prefix for boolean settings on the command line.)</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd><p>Enable full debugging.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--help</dt><dd><p>Print this help message.</p></dd>
<dt>--logdest</dt><dd><p>Where to send log messages. Choose between 'syslog' (the POSIX syslog
service), 'console', or the path to a log file. If debugging or verbosity is
enabled, this defaults to 'console'. Otherwise, it defaults to 'syslog'.</p>

<p>A path ending with '.json' will receive structured output in JSON format. The
log file will not have an ending ']' automatically written to it due to the
appending nature of logging. It must be appended manually to make the content
valid JSON.</p></dd>
<dt>--masterport</dt><dd><p>The port on which to listen for traffic. The default port is 8140.
(This is a Puppet setting, and can go in puppet.conf.)</p></dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd><p>Enable verbosity.</p></dd>
<dt>--version</dt><dd><p>Print the puppet version number and exit.</p></dd>
<dt>--compile</dt><dd><p>Compile a catalogue and output it in JSON from the puppet master. Uses
facts contained in the $vardir/yaml/ directory to compile the catalog.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLE">EXAMPLE</h2>

<p>  puppet master</p>

<h2 id="DIAGNOSTICS">DIAGNOSTICS</h2>

<p>When running as a standalone daemon, puppet master accepts the
following signals:</p>

<dl>
<dt class="flush">SIGHUP</dt><dd>Restart the puppet master server.</dd>
<dt>SIGINT and SIGTERM</dt><dd>Shut down the puppet master server.</dd>
<dt class="flush">SIGUSR2</dt><dd>Close file descriptors for log files and reopen them. Used with logrotate.</dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="AUTHOR">AUTHOR</h2>

<p>Luke Kanies</p>

<h2 id="COPYRIGHT">COPYRIGHT</h2>

<p>Copyright (c) 2012 Puppet Labs, LLC Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License</p>

</div>
