---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 922313f3b1cc7f14c799bddb4e354e45b29be180
title: 'Man Page: puppet man'
canonical: "/puppet/latest/man/man.html"
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-man</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Display Puppet manual pages.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet man <var>action</var></p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>Please use the command 'puppet help <var>subcommand</var>' or the system manpage system
'man puppet-<var>subcommand</var>' to display information about Puppet subcommands. The
deprecated man subcommand displays manual pages for all Puppet subcommands. If
the <code>ronn</code> gem (<a href="https://github.com/rtomayko/ronn/" data-bare-link="true">https://github.com/rtomayko/ronn/</a>) is installed on your
system, puppet man will display fully-formatted man pages. If <code>ronn</code> is not
available, puppet man will display the raw (but human-readable) source text
in a pager.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>man</code> - Display the manual page for a Puppet subcommand.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet man <var>subcommand</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Display the manual page for a Puppet subcommand.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>The man data, in Markdown format, suitable for consumption by Ronn.</p>

<p>RENDERING ISSUES: To skip fancy formatting and output the raw Markdown
text (e.g. for use in a pipeline), call this action with '--render-as s'.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>man</code></p>

<p>View the installed manual page for the subcommand 'config':</p>

<p>$ man puppet-config</p>

<p>(Deprecated) View the manual page for the subcommand 'config':</p>

<p>$ puppet man config</p>

<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>The pager used for display will be the first found of <code>$MANPAGER</code>, <code>$PAGER</code>,
<code>less</code>, <code>most</code>, or <code>more</code>.</p>

<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Inc.
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
