---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 3ce801f143dd39528009524565033e0ca5d79da7
title: 'Man Page: puppet plugin'
canonical: "/puppet/latest/man/plugin.html"
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-plugin</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Interact with the Puppet plugin system.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet plugin <var>action</var></p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand provides network access to the puppet master's store of
plugins.</p>

<p>The puppet master serves Ruby code collected from the <code>lib</code> directories
of its modules. These plugins can be used on agent nodes to extend
Facter and implement custom types and providers. Plugins are normally
downloaded by puppet agent during the course of a run.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>download</code> - Download plugins from the puppet master.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet plugin download</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Downloads plugins from the configured puppet master. Any plugins
downloaded in this way will be used in all subsequent Puppet activity.
This action modifies files on disk.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>A list of the files downloaded, or a confirmation that no files were
downloaded. When used from the Ruby API, this action returns an array of
the files downloaded, which will be empty if none were retrieved.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>download</code></p>

<p>Retrieve plugins from the puppet master:</p>

<p>$ puppet plugin download</p>

<p>Retrieve plugins from the puppet master (API example):</p>

<p>$ Puppet::Face[:plugin, '0.0.1'].download</p>

<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Inc.
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
