---
canonical: "/puppet/latest/reference/indirection.html"
layout: default
title: Indirection Reference
---

# Indirection Reference



**This page is autogenerated; any changes will get overwritten** *(last generated on Thu Jul 12 15:14:18 -0700 2012)*

This is the list of all indirections, their associated terminus classes, and how you select between them.

In general, the appropriate terminus class is selected by the application for you (e.g., `puppet agent` would always use the `rest`
terminus for most of its indirected classes), but some classes are tunable via normal settings.  These will have `terminus setting` documentation listed with them.


## catalog

* **Terminus Setting**: catalog_terminus

### active_record



### compiler

Puppet's catalog compilation interface, and its back-end is
Puppet's compiler

### queue



### rest

Find resource catalogs over HTTP via REST.

### yaml

Store catalogs as flat files, serialized using YAML.

## certificate



### ca

Manage the CA collection of signed SSL certificates on disk.

### file

Manage SSL certificates on disk.

### rest

Find and save certificates over HTTP via REST.

## certificate_request



### ca

Manage the CA collection of certificate requests on disk.

### file

Manage the collection of certificate requests on disk.

### rest

Find and save certificate requests over HTTP via REST.

## certificate_revocation_list



### ca

Manage the CA collection of certificate requests on disk.

### file

Manage the global certificate revocation list.

### rest

Find and save certificate revocation lists over HTTP via REST.

## facts

* **Terminus Setting**: facts_terminus

### active_record



### couch



### facter

Retrieve facts from Facter.  This provides a somewhat abstract interface
between Puppet and Facter.  It's only `somewhat` abstract because it always
returns the local host's facts, regardless of what you attempt to find.

### inventory_active_record



### inventory_service

Find and save facts about nodes using a remote inventory service.

### memory

Keep track of facts in memory but nowhere else.  This is used for
one-time compiles, such as what the stand-alone `puppet` does.
To use this terminus, you must load it with the data you want it
to contain.

### rest

Find and save facts about nodes over HTTP via REST.

### yaml

Store client facts as flat files, serialized using YAML, or
return deserialized facts from disk.

## file_bucket_file



### file

Store files in a directory set based on their checksums.

### rest

This is a REST based mechanism to send/retrieve file to/from the filebucket

### selector

Select the terminus based on the request

## file_content



### file

Retrieve file contents from disk.

### file_server

Retrieve file contents using Puppet's fileserver.

### rest

Retrieve file contents via a REST HTTP interface.

### selector

Select the terminus based on the request

## file_metadata



### file

Retrieve file metadata directly from the local filesystem.

### file_server

Retrieve file metadata using Puppet's fileserver.

### rest

Retrieve file metadata via a REST HTTP interface.

### selector

Select the terminus based on the request

## key



### ca

Manage the CA's private on disk.  This terminus *only* works
with the CA key, because that's the only key that the CA ever interacts
with.

### file

Manage SSL private and public keys on disk.

## node

Where to find node information.
A node is composed of its name, its facts, and its environment.

* **Terminus Setting**: node_terminus

### active_record



### exec

Call an external program to get node information.  See
the [External Nodes](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/external_nodes.html) page for more information.

### ldap

Search in LDAP for node configuration information.  See
the [LDAP Nodes](http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/Ldap_Nodes) page for more information.  This will first
search for whatever the certificate name is, then (if that name
contains a `.`) for the short name, then `default`.

### memory

Keep track of nodes in memory but nowhere else.  This is used for
one-time compiles, such as what the stand-alone `puppet` does.
To use this terminus, you must load it with the data you want it
to contain; it is only useful for developers and should generally not
be chosen by a normal user.

### plain

Always return an empty node object. Assumes you keep track of nodes
in flat file manifests.  You should use it when you don't have some other,
functional source you want to use, as the compiler will not work without a
valid node terminus.

Note that class is responsible for merging the node's facts into the
node instance before it is returned.

### rest

This will eventually be a REST-based mechanism for finding nodes.  It is currently non-functional.

### yaml

Store node information as flat files, serialized using YAML,
or deserialize stored YAML nodes.

## report



### processor

Puppet's report processor.  Processes the report with each of
the report types listed in the 'reports' setting.

### rest

Get server report over HTTP via REST.

### yaml

Store last report as a flat file, serialized using YAML.

## resource



### ral



### rest



## resource_type



### parser

Return the data-form of a resource type.

### rest

Retrieve resource types via a REST HTTP interface.

## status



### local



### rest





----------------

*This page autogenerated on Thu Jul 12 15:14:19 -0700 2012*
