---
layout: default
title: "Type Reference"
canonical: "/puppet/latest/reference/type.html"
---


# Type Reference



**This page is autogenerated; any changes will get overwritten** *(last generated on Mon Mar 18 11:29:47 -0700 2013)*



## Resource Types

- The *namevar* is the parameter used to uniquely identify a type instance.
  This is the parameter that gets assigned when a string is provided before
  the colon in a type declaration.  In general, only developers will need to
  worry about which parameter is the `namevar`.

  In the following code:

      file { "/etc/passwd":
        owner => root,
        group => root,
        mode => 644
      }

  `/etc/passwd` is considered the title of the file object (used for things like
  dependency handling), and because `path` is the namevar for `file`, that
  string is assigned to the `path` parameter.

- *Parameters* determine the specific configuration of the instance.  They either
  directly modify the system (internally, these are called properties) or they affect
  how the instance behaves (e.g., adding a search path for `exec` instances or determining recursion on `file` instances).

- *Providers* provide low-level functionality for a given resource type.  This is
  usually in the form of calling out to external commands.

  When required binaries are specified for providers, fully qualifed paths
  indicate that the binary must exist at that specific path and unqualified
  binaries indicate that Puppet will search for the binary using the shell
  path.

- *Features* are abilities that some providers might not support.  You can use the list
  of supported features to determine how a given provider can be used.

  Resource types define features they can use, and providers can be tested to see
  which features they provide.

    

----------------

### augeas

Apply the changes (single or array of changes) to the filesystem
via the augeas tool.

Requires:

- augeas to be installed (http://www.augeas.net)
- ruby-augeas bindings

Sample usage with a string:

    augeas{"test1" :
      context => "/files/etc/sysconfig/firstboot",
      changes => "set RUN_FIRSTBOOT YES",
      onlyif  => "match other_value size > 0",
    }

Sample usage with an array and custom lenses:

    augeas{"jboss_conf":
      context => "/files",
      changes => [
        "set /etc/jbossas/jbossas.conf/JBOSS_IP $ipaddress",
        "set /etc/jbossas/jbossas.conf/JAVA_HOME /usr"
      ],
      load_path => "$/usr/share/jbossas/lenses",
    }



#### Features

- *execute_changes*: Actually make the changes
- *need_to_run?*: If the command should run
- *parse_commands*: Parse the command string


Provider | execute changes | need to run? | parse commands |
-------- | --------------- | ------------ | -------------- |
augeas   | *X*             | *X*          | *X*            |

#### Parameters


##### changes

The changes which should be applied to the filesystem. This
can be either a string which contains a command or an array of commands.
Commands supported are:

    set [PATH] [VALUE]            Sets the value VALUE at loction PATH
    rm [PATH]                     Removes the node at location PATH
    remove [PATH]                 Synonym for rm
    clear [PATH]                  Keeps the node at PATH, but removes the value.
    ins [LABEL] [WHERE] [PATH]    Inserts an empty node LABEL either [WHERE={before|after}] PATH.
    insert [LABEL] [WHERE] [PATH] Synonym for ins

If the parameter 'context' is set that value is prepended to PATH

##### context

Optional context path. This value is prepended to the paths of all changes if the path is relative. If INCL is set, defaults to '/files' + INCL, otherwise the empty string

##### force

Optional command to force the augeas type to execute even if it thinks changes
will not be made. This does not overide the only setting. If onlyif is set, then the
foce setting will not override that result

##### incl

Load only a specific file, e.g. `/etc/hosts`.  When this parameter is set, you must also set the lens parameter to indicate which lens to use.

##### lens

Use a specific lens, e.g. `Hosts.lns`. When this parameter is set, you must also set the incl parameter to indicate which file to load. Only that file will be loaded, which greatly speeds up execution of the type

##### load_path

Optional colon separated list of directories; these directories are searched for schema definitions

##### name

The name of this task. Used for uniqueness

##### onlyif

Optional augeas command and comparisons to control the execution of this type.
Supported onlyif syntax:

    get [AUGEAS_PATH] [COMPARATOR] [STRING]
    match [MATCH_PATH] size [COMPARATOR] [INT]
    match [MATCH_PATH] include [STRING]
    match [MATCH_PATH] not_include [STRING]
    match [MATCH_PATH] == [AN_ARRAY]
    match [MATCH_PATH] != [AN_ARRAY]

where:

    AUGEAS_PATH is a valid path scoped by the context
    MATCH_PATH is a valid match synatx scoped by the context
    COMPARATOR is in the set [> >= != == <= <]
    STRING is a string
    INT is a number
    AN_ARRAY is in the form ['a string', 'another']

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **augeas**:       Supported features: `execute_changes`, `need_to_run?`, `parse_commands`.

##### returns

The expected return code from the augeas command. Should not be set

##### root

A file system path; all files loaded by Augeas are loaded underneath ROOT

##### type_check

Set to true if augeas should perform typechecking. Optional, defaults to false  Valid values are `true`, `false`.




----------------

### computer

Computer object management using DirectoryService
on OS X.

Note that these are distinctly different kinds of objects to 'hosts',
as they require a MAC address and can have all sorts of policy attached to
them.

This provider only manages Computer objects in the local directory service
domain, not in remote directories.

If you wish to manage `/etc/hosts` file on Mac OS X, then simply use the host
type as per other platforms.

This type primarily exists to create localhost Computer objects that MCX
policy can then be attached to.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the plist file representing a
Computer object (located at `/var/db/dslocal/nodes/Default/computers/{name}.plist`),
the Computer resource will autorequire it.

#### Parameters


##### en_address

The MAC address of the primary network interface. Must match en0.

##### ensure

Control the existences of this computer record. Set this attribute to
`present` to ensure the computer record exists.  Set it to `absent`
to delete any computer records with this name  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### ip_address

The IP Address of the Computer object.

##### name

The authoritative 'short' name of the computer record.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **directoryservice**: Computer object management using DirectoryService on OS X.
  Note that these are distinctly different kinds of objects to 'hosts',
  as they require a MAC address and can have all sorts of policy attached to
  them.

  This provider only manages Computer objects in the local directory service
  domain, not in remote directories.

  If you wish to manage /etc/hosts on Mac OS X, then simply use the host
  type as per other platforms.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.  

##### realname

The 'long' name of the computer record.




----------------

### cron

Installs and manages cron jobs.  Every cron resource requires a command
and user attribute, as well as at least one periodic attribute (hour,
minute, month, monthday, weekday, or special).  While the name of the cron
job is not part of the actual job, it is used by Puppet to store and
retrieve it.

If you specify a cron job that matches an existing job in every way
except name, then the jobs will be considered equivalent and the
new name will be permanently associated with that job.  Once this
association is made and synced to disk, you can then manage the job
normally (e.g., change the schedule of the job).

Example:

    cron { logrotate:
      command => "/usr/sbin/logrotate",
      user => root,
      hour => 2,
      minute => 0
    }

Note that all periodic attributes can be specified as an array of values:

    cron { logrotate:
      command => "/usr/sbin/logrotate",
      user => root,
      hour => [2, 4]
    }

...or using ranges or the step syntax `*/2` (although there's no guarantee
that your `cron` daemon supports these):

    cron { logrotate:
      command => "/usr/sbin/logrotate",
      user => root,
      hour => ['2-4'],
      minute => '*/10'
    }


#### Parameters


##### command

The command to execute in the cron job.  The environment
provided to the command varies by local system rules, and it is
best to always provide a fully qualified command.  The user's
profile is not sourced when the command is run, so if the
user's environment is desired it should be sourced manually.

All cron parameters support `absent` as a value; this will
remove any existing values for that field.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### environment

Any environment settings associated with this cron job.  They
will be stored between the header and the job in the crontab.  There
can be no guarantees that other, earlier settings will not also
affect a given cron job.


Also, Puppet cannot automatically determine whether an existing,
unmanaged environment setting is associated with a given cron
job.  If you already have cron jobs with environment settings,
then Puppet will keep those settings in the same place in the file,
but will not associate them with a specific job.

Settings should be specified exactly as they should appear in
the crontab, e.g., `PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin`.

##### hour

The hour at which to run the cron job. Optional;
if specified, must be between 0 and 23, inclusive.

##### minute

The minute at which to run the cron job.
Optional; if specified, must be between 0 and 59, inclusive.

##### month

The month of the year.  Optional; if specified
must be between 1 and 12 or the month name (e.g., December).

##### monthday

The day of the month on which to run the
command.  Optional; if specified, must be between 1 and 31.

##### name

The symbolic name of the cron job.  This name
is used for human reference only and is generated automatically
for cron jobs found on the system.  This generally won't
matter, as Puppet will do its best to match existing cron jobs
against specified jobs (and Puppet adds a comment to cron jobs it adds), but it is at least possible that converting from
unmanaged jobs to managed jobs might require manual
intervention.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **crontab**:   Required binaries: `crontab`.    

##### special

A special value such as 'reboot' or 'annually'.
Only available on supported systems such as Vixie Cron.
Overrides more specific time of day/week settings.

##### target

Where the cron job should be stored.  For crontab-style
entries this is the same as the user and defaults that way.
Other providers default accordingly.

##### user

The user to run the command as.  This user must
be allowed to run cron jobs, which is not currently checked by
Puppet.

The user defaults to whomever Puppet is running as.

##### weekday

The weekday on which to run the command.
Optional; if specified, must be between 0 and 7, inclusive, with
0 (or 7) being Sunday, or must be the name of the day (e.g., Tuesday).




----------------

### exec

Executes external commands.  It is critical that all commands
executed using this mechanism can be run multiple times without
harm, i.e., they are *idempotent*.  One useful way to create idempotent
commands is to use the checks like `creates` to avoid running the
command unless some condition is met.

Note that you can restrict an `exec` to only run when it receives
events by using the `refreshonly` parameter; this is a useful way to
have your configuration respond to events with arbitrary commands.

Note also that if an `exec` receives an event from another resource,
it will get executed again (or execute the command specified in `refresh`, if there is one).

There is a strong tendency to use `exec` to do whatever work Puppet
can't already do; while this is obviously acceptable (and unavoidable)
in the short term, it is highly recommended to migrate work from `exec`
to native Puppet types as quickly as possible.  If you find that
you are doing a lot of work with `exec`, please at least notify
us at Puppet Labs what you are doing, and hopefully we can work with
you to get a native resource type for the work you are doing.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing an exec's cwd or the executable file used in an exec's command, the exec resource will autorequire those files. If Puppet is managing the user that an exec should run as, the exec resource will autorequire that user.

#### Parameters


##### command

- **namevar**

The actual command to execute.  Must either be fully qualified
or a search path for the command must be provided.  If the command
succeeds, any output produced will be logged at the instance's
normal log level (usually `notice`), but if the command fails
(meaning its return code does not match the specified code) then
any output is logged at the `err` log level.

##### creates

A file that this command creates.  If this
parameter is provided, then the command will only be run
if the specified file does not exist:

    exec { "tar xf /my/tar/file.tar":
      cwd => "/var/tmp",
      creates => "/var/tmp/myfile",
      path => ["/usr/bin", "/usr/sbin"]
    }



##### cwd

The directory from which to run the command.  If
this directory does not exist, the command will fail.

##### env

This parameter is deprecated. Use 'environment' instead.

##### environment

Any additional environment variables you want to set for a
command.  Note that if you use this to set PATH, it will override
the `path` attribute.  Multiple environment variables should be
specified as an array.

##### group

The group to run the command as.  This seems to work quite
haphazardly on different platforms -- it is a platform issue
not a Ruby or Puppet one, since the same variety exists when
running commnands as different users in the shell.

##### logoutput

Whether to log output.  Defaults to logging output at the
loglevel for the `exec` resource. Use *on_failure* to only
log the output when the command reports an error.  Valid values are `true`, `false`, `on_failure`.

##### onlyif

If this parameter is set, then this `exec` will only run if
the command returns 0.  For example:

    exec { "logrotate":
      path => "/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin",
      onlyif => "test `du /var/log/messages | cut -f1` -gt 100000"
    }

This would run `logrotate` only if that test returned true.

Note that this command follows the same rules as the main command,
which is to say that it must be fully qualified if the path is not set.

Also note that onlyif can take an array as its value, e.g.:

    onlyif => ["test -f /tmp/file1", "test -f /tmp/file2"]

This will only run the exec if /all/ conditions in the array return true.


##### path

The search path used for command execution.
Commands must be fully qualified if no path is specified.  Paths
can be specified as an array or as a colon separated list.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **posix**:     Executes external binaries directly, without passing through a shell or
    performing any interpolation. This is a safer and more predictable way
    to execute most commands, but prevents the use of globbing and shell
    built-ins (including control logic like "for" and "if" statements).
    Default for `feature` == `posix`.  
* **shell**:     Passes the provided command through `/bin/sh`; only available on
    POSIX systems. This allows the use of shell globbing and built-ins, and
    does not require that the path to a command be fully-qualified. Although
    this can be more convenient than the `posix` provider, it also means that
    you need to be more careful with escaping; as ever, with great power comes
    etc. etc.

    This provider closely resembles the behavior of the `exec` type
    in Puppet 0.25.x.
    

##### refresh

How to refresh this command.  By default, the exec is just
called again when it receives an event from another resource,
but this parameter allows you to define a different command
for refreshing.

##### refreshonly

The command should only be run as a
refresh mechanism for when a dependent object is changed.  It only
makes sense to use this option when this command depends on some
other object; it is useful for triggering an action:

    # Pull down the main aliases file
    file { "/etc/aliases":
      source => "puppet://server/module/aliases"
    }

    # Rebuild the database, but only when the file changes
    exec { newaliases:
      path => ["/usr/bin", "/usr/sbin"],
      subscribe => File["/etc/aliases"],
      refreshonly => true
    }

Note that only `subscribe` and `notify` can trigger actions, not `require`,
so it only makes sense to use `refreshonly` with `subscribe` or `notify`.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### returns

The expected return code(s).  An error will be returned if the
executed command returns something else.  Defaults to 0. Can be
specified as an array of acceptable return codes or a single value.

##### timeout

The maximum time the command should take.  If the command takes
longer than the timeout, the command is considered to have failed
and will be stopped.  Use 0 to disable the timeout.
The time is specified in seconds.

##### tries

The number of times execution of the command should be tried.
Defaults to '1'. This many attempts will be made to execute
the command until an acceptable return code is returned.
Note that the timeout paramater applies to each try rather than
to the complete set of tries.

##### try_sleep

The time to sleep in seconds between 'tries'.

##### unless

If this parameter is set, then this `exec` will run unless
the command returns 0.  For example:

    exec { "/bin/echo root >> /usr/lib/cron/cron.allow":
      path => "/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin",
      unless => "grep root /usr/lib/cron/cron.allow 2>/dev/null"
    }

This would add `root` to the cron.allow file (on Solaris) unless
`grep` determines it's already there.

Note that this command follows the same rules as the main command,
which is to say that it must be fully qualified if the path is not set.


##### user

The user to run the command as.  Note that if you
use this then any error output is not currently captured.  This
is because of a bug within Ruby.  If you are using Puppet to
create this user, the exec will automatically require the user,
as long as it is specified by name.

  Please also note that $HOME is not set when using this option.




----------------

### file

Manages local files, including setting ownership and
permissions, creation of both files and directories, and
retrieving entire files from remote servers.  As Puppet matures, it
expected that the `file` resource will be used less and less to
manage content, and instead native resources will be used to do so.

If you find that you are often copying files in from a central
location, rather than using native resources, please contact
Puppet Labs and we can hopefully work with you to develop a
native resource to support what you are doing.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user or group that owns a file, the file resource will autorequire them. If Puppet is managing any parent directories of a file, the file resource will autorequire them.

#### Parameters


##### backup

Whether files should be backed up before
being replaced.  The preferred method of backing files up is via
a `filebucket`, which stores files by their MD5 sums and allows
easy retrieval without littering directories with backups.  You
can specify a local filebucket or a network-accessible
server-based filebucket by setting `backup => bucket-name`.
Alternatively, if you specify any value that begins with a `.`
(e.g., `.puppet-bak`), then Puppet will use copy the file in
the same directory with that value as the extension of the
backup. Setting `backup => false` disables all backups of the
file in question.

Puppet automatically creates a local filebucket named `puppet` and
defaults to backing up there.  To use a server-based filebucket,
you must specify one in your configuration

      filebucket { main:
        server => puppet
      }

The `puppet master` daemon creates a filebucket by default,
so you can usually back up to your main server with this
configuration.  Once you've described the bucket in your
configuration, you can use it in any file

      file { "/my/file":
        source => "/path/in/nfs/or/something",
        backup => main
      }

This will back the file up to the central server.

At this point, the benefits of using a filebucket are that you do not
have backup files lying around on each of your machines, a given
version of a file is only backed up once, and you can restore
any given file manually, no matter how old.  Eventually,
transactional support will be able to automatically restore
filebucketed files.


##### checksum

The checksum type to use when checksumming a file.

The default checksum parameter, if checksums are enabled, is md5.  Valid values are `md5`, `md5lite`, `mtime`, `ctime`, `none`.

##### content

Specify the contents of a file as a string.  Newlines, tabs, and
spaces can be specified using the escaped syntax (e.g., \n for a newline).  The primary purpose of this parameter is to provide a
kind of limited templating:

    define resolve(nameserver1, nameserver2, domain, search) {
        $str = "search $search
            domain $domain
            nameserver $nameserver1
            nameserver $nameserver2
            "

        file { "/etc/resolv.conf":
          content => $str
        }
    }

This attribute is especially useful when used with templating.

##### ctime

A read-only state to check the file ctime.

##### ensure

Whether to create files that don't currently exist.
Possible values are *absent*, *present*, *file*, and *directory*.
Specifying `present` will match any form of file existence, and
if the file is missing will create an empty file. Specifying
`absent` will delete the file (and directory if recurse => true).

Anything other than those values will create a symlink. In the interest of readability and clarity, you should use `ensure => link` and explicitly specify a
target; however, if a `target` attribute isn't provided, the value of the `ensure`
attribute will be used as the symlink target:

    # (Useful on Solaris)
    # Less maintainable: 
    file { "/etc/inetd.conf":
      ensure => "/etc/inet/inetd.conf",
    }

    # More maintainable:
    file { "/etc/inetd.conf":
      ensure => link,
      target => "/etc/inet/inetd.conf",
    }

These two declarations are equivalent.  Valid values are `absent` (also called `false`), `file`, `present`, `directory`, `link`.  Values can match `/./`.

##### force

Force the file operation.  Currently only used when replacing
directories with links.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### group

Which group should own the file.  Argument can be either group
name or group ID.

##### ignore

A parameter which omits action on files matching
specified patterns during recursion.  Uses Ruby's builtin globbing
engine, so shell metacharacters are fully supported, e.g. `[a-z]*`.
Matches that would descend into the directory structure are ignored,
e.g., `*/*`.

##### links

How to handle links during file actions.  During file copying,
`follow` will copy the target file instead of the link, `manage`
will copy the link itself, and `ignore` will just pass it by.
When not copying, `manage` and `ignore` behave equivalently
(because you cannot really ignore links entirely during local recursion), and `follow` will manage the file to which the
link points.  Valid values are `follow`, `manage`.

##### mode

Mode the file should be.  Currently relatively limited:
you must specify the exact mode the file should be.

Note that when you set the mode of a directory, Puppet always
sets the search/traverse (1) bit anywhere the read (4) bit is set.
This is almost always what you want: read allows you to list the
entries in a directory, and search/traverse allows you to access
(read/write/execute) those entries.)  Because of this feature, you
can recursively make a directory and all of the files in it
world-readable by setting e.g.:

    file { '/some/dir':
      mode => 644,
      recurse => true,
    }

In this case all of the files underneath `/some/dir` will have
mode 644, and all of the directories will have mode 755.

##### mtime

A read-only state to check the file mtime.

##### owner

To whom the file should belong.  Argument can be user name or
user ID.

##### path

- **namevar**

The path to the file to manage.  Must be fully qualified.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **microsoft_windows**: Uses Microsoft Windows functionality to manage file's users and rights.    
* **posix**: Uses POSIX functionality to manage file's users and rights.    

##### purge

Whether unmanaged files should be purged.  If you have a filebucket
configured the purged files will be uploaded, but if you do not,
this will destroy data.  Only use this option for generated
files unless you really know what you are doing.  This option only
makes sense when recursively managing directories.

Note that when using `purge` with `source`, Puppet will purge any files
that are not on the remote system.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### recurse

Whether and how deeply to do recursive
management. Options are:

* `inf,true` --- Regular style recursion on both remote and local
  directory structure.
* `remote` --- Descends recursively into the remote directory
  but not the local directory. Allows copying of
  a few files into a directory containing many
  unmanaged files without scanning all the local files.
* `false` --- Default of no recursion.
* `[0-9]+` --- Same as true, but limit recursion. Warning: this syntax
  has been deprecated in favor of the `recurselimit` attribute.
Valid values are `true`, `false`, `inf`, `remote`.  Values can match `/^[0-9]+$/`.

##### recurselimit

How deeply to do recursive management.  Values can match `/^[0-9]+$/`.

##### replace

Whether or not to replace a file that is
sourced but exists.  This is useful for using file sources
purely for initialization.  Valid values are `true` (also called `yes`), `false` (also called `no`).

##### selinux_ignore_defaults

If this is set then Puppet will not ask SELinux (via matchpathcon) to
supply defaults for the SELinux attributes (seluser, selrole,
seltype, and selrange). In general, you should leave this set at its
default and only set it to true when you need Puppet to not try to fix
SELinux labels automatically.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### selrange

What the SELinux range component of the context of the file should be.
Any valid SELinux range component is accepted.  For example `s0` or
`SystemHigh`.  If not specified it defaults to the value returned by
matchpathcon for the file, if any exists.  Only valid on systems with
SELinux support enabled and that have support for MCS (Multi-Category
Security).

##### selrole

What the SELinux role component of the context of the file should be.
Any valid SELinux role component is accepted.  For example `role_r`.
If not specified it defaults to the value returned by matchpathcon for
the file, if any exists.  Only valid on systems with SELinux support
enabled.

##### seltype

What the SELinux type component of the context of the file should be.
Any valid SELinux type component is accepted.  For example `tmp_t`.
If not specified it defaults to the value returned by matchpathcon for
the file, if any exists.  Only valid on systems with SELinux support
enabled.

##### seluser

What the SELinux user component of the context of the file should be.
Any valid SELinux user component is accepted.  For example `user_u`.
If not specified it defaults to the value returned by matchpathcon for
the file, if any exists.  Only valid on systems with SELinux support
enabled.

##### source

Copy a file over the current file.  Uses `checksum` to
determine when a file should be copied.  Valid values are either
fully qualified paths to files, or URIs.  Currently supported URI
types are *puppet* and *file*.

This is one of the primary mechanisms for getting content into
applications that Puppet does not directly support and is very
useful for those configuration files that don't change much across
sytems.  For instance:

    class sendmail {
      file { "/etc/mail/sendmail.cf":
        source => "puppet://server/modules/module_name/sendmail.cf"
      }
    }

You can also leave out the server name, in which case `puppet agent`
will fill in the name of its configuration server and `puppet apply`
will use the local filesystem.  This makes it easy to use the same
configuration in both local and centralized forms.

Currently, only the `puppet` scheme is supported for source
URL's. Puppet will connect to the file server running on
`server` to retrieve the contents of the file. If the
`server` part is empty, the behavior of the command-line
interpreter (`puppet apply`) and the client demon (`puppet agent`) differs
slightly: `apply` will look such a file up on the module path
on the local host, whereas `agent` will connect to the
puppet server that it received the manifest from.

See the [fileserver configuration documentation](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/file_serving.html) for information on how to configure
and use file services within Puppet.

If you specify multiple file sources for a file, then the first
source that exists will be used.  This allows you to specify
what amount to search paths for files:

    file { "/path/to/my/file":
      source => [
        "/modules/nfs/files/file.$host",
        "/modules/nfs/files/file.$operatingsystem",
        "/modules/nfs/files/file"
      ]
    }

This will use the first found file as the source.

You cannot currently copy links using this mechanism; set `links`
to `follow` if any remote sources are links.


##### sourceselect

Whether to copy all valid sources, or just the first one.  This parameter
is only used in recursive copies; by default, the first valid source is the
only one used as a recursive source, but if this parameter is set to `all`,
then all valid sources will have all of their contents copied to the local host,
and for sources that have the same file, the source earlier in the list will
be used.  Valid values are `first`, `all`.

##### target

The target for creating a link.  Currently, symlinks are the
only type supported.

You can make relative links:

    # (Useful on Solaris)
    file { "/etc/inetd.conf":
      ensure => link,
      target => "inet/inetd.conf",
    }
    
You can also make recursive symlinks, which will create a
directory structure that maps to the target directory,
with directories corresponding to each directory
and links corresponding to each file.  Valid values are `notlink`.  Values can match `/./`.

##### type

A read-only state to check the file type.




----------------

### filebucket

A repository for backing up files.  If no filebucket is
defined, then files will be backed up in their current directory,
but the filebucket can be either a host- or site-global repository
for backing up.  It stores files and returns the MD5 sum, which
can later be used to retrieve the file if restoration becomes
necessary.  A filebucket does not do any work itself; instead,
it can be specified as the value of *backup* in a **file** object.

Currently, filebuckets are only useful for manual retrieval of
accidentally removed files (e.g., you look in the log for the md5 sum and retrieve the file with that sum from the filebucket), but
when transactions are fully supported filebuckets will be used to
undo transactions.

You will normally want to define a single filebucket for your
whole network and then use that as the default backup location:

    # Define the bucket
    filebucket { main: server => puppet }

    # Specify it as the default target
    File { backup => main }

Puppetmaster servers create a filebucket by default, so this will
work in a default configuration.

#### Parameters


##### name

The name of the filebucket.

##### path

The path to the local filebucket.  If this is
unset, then the bucket is remote.  The parameter *server* must
can be specified to set the remote server.

##### port

The port on which the remote server is listening.
Defaults to the normal Puppet port, 8140.

##### server

The server providing the remote filebucket.  If this is not
specified then *path* is checked. If it is set, then the
bucket is local.  Otherwise the puppetmaster server specified
in the config or at the commandline is used.




----------------

### group

Manage groups. On most platforms this can only create groups.
Group membership must be managed on individual users.

On some platforms such as OS X, group membership is managed as an
attribute of the group, not the user record. Providers must have
the feature 'manages_members' to manage the 'members' property of
a group record.

#### Features

- *manages_members*: For directories where membership is an attribute of groups not users.
- *system_groups*: The provider allows you to create system groups with lower GIDs.


Provider         | manages members | system groups |
---------------- | --------------- | ------------- |
directoryservice | *X*             |               |
groupadd         |                 | *X*           |
ldap             |                 |               |
pw               |                 |               |

#### Parameters


##### allowdupe

Whether to allow duplicate GIDs.  This option does not work on
FreeBSD (contract to the `pw` man page).  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### auth_membership

whether the provider is authoritative for group membership.

##### ensure

Create or remove the group.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### gid

The group ID.  Must be specified numerically.  If not
specified, a number will be picked, which can result in ID
differences across systems and thus is not recommended.  The
GID is picked according to local system standards.

##### members

The members of the group. For directory services where group
membership is stored in the group objects, not the users.  Requires features manages_members.

##### name

The group name.  While naming limitations vary by
system, it is advisable to keep the name to the degenerate
limitations, which is a maximum of 8 characters beginning with
a letter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **directoryservice**: Group management using DirectoryService on OS X.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/dscl`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.    Supported features: `manages_members`.
* **groupadd**: Group management via `groupadd` and its ilk.

  The default for most platforms

    Required binaries: `groupmod`, `groupdel`, `groupadd`.      Supported features: `system_groups`.
* **ldap**: Group management via `ldap`.

  This provider requires that you have valid values for all of the
  ldap-related settings, including `ldapbase`.  You will also almost
  definitely need settings for `ldapuser` and `ldappassword`, so that
  your clients can write to ldap.

  Note that this provider will automatically generate a GID for you if you do
  not specify one, but it is a potentially expensive operation, as it
  iterates across all existing groups to pick the appropriate next one.

      
* **pw**: Group management via `pw`.

  Only works on FreeBSD.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/pw`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `freebsd`.  

##### system

Whether the group is a system group with lower GID.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.




----------------

### host

Installs and manages host entries.  For most systems, these
entries will just be in `/etc/hosts`, but some systems (notably OS X)
will have different solutions.

#### Parameters


##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### host_aliases

Any aliases the host might have.  Multiple values must be
specified as an array.

##### ip

The host's IP address, IPv4 or IPv6.

##### name

The host name.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **parsed**:     

##### target

The file in which to store service information.  Only used by
those providers that write to disk. On most systems this defaults to `/etc/hosts`.




----------------

### k5login

Manage the `.k5login` file for a user.  Specify the full path to
the `.k5login` file as the name and an array of principals as the
property principals.

#### Parameters


##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### mode

Manage the k5login file's mode

##### path

- **namevar**

The path to the file to manage.  Must be fully qualified.

##### principals

The principals present in the `.k5login` file.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **k5login**: The k5login provider is the only provider for the k5login
      type.    




----------------

### macauthorization

Manage the Mac OS X authorization database.
See the [Apple developer site](http://developer.apple.com/documentation/Security/Conceptual/Security_Overview/Security_Services/chapter_4_section_5.html) for more information.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the `/etc/authorization` file, each
macauthorization resource will autorequire it.

#### Parameters


##### allow_root

Corresponds to 'allow-root' in the authorization store, renamed
due to hyphens being problematic. Specifies whether a right should be
allowed automatically if the requesting process is running with
uid == 0.  AuthorizationServices defaults this attribute to false if
not specified  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### auth_class

Corresponds to 'class' in the authorization store, renamed due
to 'class' being a reserved word.  Valid values are `user`, `evaluate-mechanisms`, `allow`, `deny`, `rule`.

##### auth_type

type - can be a 'right' or a 'rule'. 'comment' has not yet been
implemented.  Valid values are `right`, `rule`.

##### authenticate_user

Corresponds to 'authenticate-user' in the authorization store,
renamed due to hyphens being problematic.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### comment

The 'comment' attribute for authorization resources.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### group

The user must authenticate as a member of this group. This
attribute can be set to any one group.

##### k_of_n

k-of-n describes how large a subset of rule mechanisms must
succeed for successful authentication. If there are 'n' mechanisms,
then 'k' (the integer value of this parameter) mechanisms must succeed.
The most common setting for this parameter is '1'. If k-of-n is not
set, then 'n-of-n' mechanisms must succeed.

##### mechanisms

an array of suitable mechanisms.

##### name

The name of the right or rule to be managed.
Corresponds to 'key' in Authorization Services. The key is the name
of a rule. A key uses the same naming conventions as a right. The
Security Server uses a rule’s key to match the rule with a right.
Wildcard keys end with a ‘.’. The generic rule has an empty key value.
Any rights that do not match a specific rule use the generic rule.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **macauthorization**: Manage Mac OS X authorization database rules and rights.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/security`, `/usr/bin/sw_vers`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.  

##### rule

The rule(s) that this right refers to.

##### session_owner

Corresponds to 'session-owner' in the authorization store,
renamed due to hyphens being problematic.  Whether the session owner
automatically matches this rule or right.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### shared

If this is set to true, then the Security Server marks the
credentials used to gain this right as shared. The Security Server
may use any shared credentials to authorize this right. For maximum
security, set sharing to false so credentials stored by the Security
Server for one application may not be used by another application.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### timeout

The credential used by this rule expires in the specified
number of seconds. For maximum security where the user must
authenticate every time, set the timeout to 0. For minimum security,
remove the timeout attribute so the user authenticates only once per
session.

##### tries

The number of tries allowed.




----------------

### mailalias

Creates an email alias in the local alias database.

#### Parameters


##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### name

The alias name.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **aliases**:     

##### recipient

Where email should be sent.  Multiple values
should be specified as an array.

##### target

The file in which to store the aliases.  Only used by
those providers that write to disk.




----------------

### maillist

Manage email lists.  This resource type currently can only create
and remove lists, it cannot reconfigure them.

#### Parameters


##### admin

The email address of the administrator.

##### description

The description of the mailing list.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`, `purged`.

##### mailserver

The name of the host handling email for the list.

##### name

The name of the email list.

##### password

The admin password.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **mailman**:   Required binaries: `/var/lib/mailman/mail/mailman`, `newlist`, `list_lists`, `rmlist`.    

##### webserver

The name of the host providing web archives and the administrative interface.




----------------

### mcx

MCX object management using DirectoryService on OS X.

The default provider of this type merely manages the XML plist as
reported by the dscl -mcxexport command.  This is similar to the
content property of the file type in Puppet.

The recommended method of using this type is to use Work Group Manager
to manage users and groups on the local computer, record the resulting
puppet manifest using the command `puppet resource mcx`, then deploy it
to other machines.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user, group, or computer that these
MCX settings refer to, the MCX resource will autorequire that user, group, or computer.


#### Features

- *manages_content*: The provider can manage MCXSettings as a string.


Provider   | manages content |
---------- | --------------- |
mcxcontent | *X*             |

#### Parameters


##### content

The XML Plist.  The value of MCXSettings in DirectoryService.
This is the standard output from the system command:
    
    dscl localhost -mcxexport /Local/Default/<ds_type>/ds_name

Note that `ds_type` is capitalized and plural in the dscl command.  Requires features manages_content.

##### ds_name

The name to attach the MCX Setting to.
e.g. 'localhost' when ds_type => computer. This setting is not
required, as it may be parsed so long as the resource name is
parseable.  e.g. /Groups/admin where 'group' is the dstype.

##### ds_type

The DirectoryService type this MCX setting attaches to.  Valid values are `user`, `group`, `computer`, `computerlist`.

##### ensure

Create or remove the MCX setting.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### name

The name of the resource being managed.
The default naming convention follows Directory Service paths:

    /Computers/localhost
    /Groups/admin
    /Users/localadmin

The `ds_type` and `ds_name` type parameters are not necessary if the
default naming convention is followed.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **mcxcontent**: MCX Settings management using DirectoryService on OS X.

  This provider manages the entire MCXSettings attribute available
  to some directory services nodes.  This management is 'all or nothing'
  in that discrete application domain key value pairs are not managed
  by this provider.

  It is recommended to use WorkGroup Manager to configure Users, Groups,
  Computers, or ComputerLists, then use 'ralsh mcx' to generate a puppet
  manifest from the resulting configuration.

  Original Author: Jeff McCune (mccune.jeff@gmail.com)

  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/dscl`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.    Supported features: `manages_content`.




----------------

### mount

Manages mounted filesystems, including putting mount
information into the mount table. The actual behavior depends
on the value of the 'ensure' parameter.

Note that if a `mount` receives an event from another resource,
it will try to remount the filesystems if `ensure` is set to `mounted`.

#### Features

- *refreshable*: The provider can remount the filesystem.


Provider | refreshable |
-------- | ----------- |
parsed   | *X*         |

#### Parameters


##### atboot

Whether to mount the mount at boot.  Not all platforms
support this.

##### blockdevice

The device to fsck.  This is property is only valid
on Solaris, and in most cases will default to the correct
value.

##### device

The device providing the mount.  This can be whatever
device is supporting by the mount, including network
devices or devices specified by UUID rather than device
path, depending on the operating system.

##### dump

Whether to dump the mount.  Not all platform support this.
Valid values are `1` or `0`. or `2` on FreeBSD, Default is `0`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`, `/(0|1)/`.

##### ensure

Control what to do with this mount. Set this attribute to
`umounted` to make sure the filesystem is in the filesystem table
but not mounted (if the filesystem is currently mounted, it will be unmounted).  Set it to `absent` to unmount (if necessary) and remove
the filesystem from the fstab.  Set to `mounted` to add it to the
fstab and mount it. Set to `present` to add to fstab but not change
mount/unmount status  Valid values are `defined` (also called `present`), `unmounted`, `absent`, `mounted`.

##### fstype

The mount type.  Valid values depend on the
operating system.  This is a required option.

##### name

The mount path for the mount.

##### options

Mount options for the mounts, as they would
appear in the fstab.

##### pass

The pass in which the mount is checked.

##### path

The deprecated name for the mount point.  Please use `name` now.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **parsed**:   Required binaries: `mount`, `umount`.      Supported features: `refreshable`.

##### remounts

Whether the mount can be remounted  `mount -o remount`.  If
this is false, then the filesystem will be unmounted and remounted
manually, which is prone to failure.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### target

The file in which to store the mount table.  Only used by
those providers that write to disk.




----------------

### nagios_command

The Nagios type command.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_command.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### command_line

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### command_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type command

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_contact

The Nagios type contact.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_contact.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### address1

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### address2

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### address3

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### address4

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### address5

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### address6

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### alias

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### can_submit_commands

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contact_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type contact

##### contactgroups

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### email

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### host_notification_commands

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_notification_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_notification_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_notifications_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### pager

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retain_nonstatus_information

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retain_status_information

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### service_notification_commands

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### service_notification_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### service_notification_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### service_notifications_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_contactgroup

The Nagios type contactgroup.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_contactgroup.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### alias

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contactgroup_members

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contactgroup_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type contactgroup

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### members

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_host

The Nagios type host.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_host.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### action_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### active_checks_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### address

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### alias

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### check_command

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### check_freshness

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### check_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### check_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contact_groups

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contacts

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### display_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### event_handler

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### event_handler_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### failure_prediction_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### first_notification_delay

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### flap_detection_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### flap_detection_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### freshness_threshold

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### high_flap_threshold

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type host

##### hostgroups

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### icon_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### icon_image_alt

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### initial_state

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### low_flap_threshold

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### max_check_attempts

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notifications_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### obsess_over_host

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### parents

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### passive_checks_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### process_perf_data

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retain_nonstatus_information

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retain_status_information

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retry_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### stalking_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### statusmap_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### vrml_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_hostdependency

The Nagios type hostdependency.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostdependency.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### _naginator_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type hostdependency

##### dependency_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### dependent_host_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### dependent_hostgroup_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### execution_failure_criteria

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### hostgroup_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### inherits_parent

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_failure_criteria

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_hostescalation

The Nagios type hostescalation.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostescalation.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### _naginator_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type hostescalation

##### contact_groups

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contacts

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### escalation_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### escalation_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### first_notification

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### hostgroup_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### last_notification

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_hostextinfo

The Nagios type hostextinfo.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostextinfo.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### host_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type hostextinfo

##### icon_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### icon_image_alt

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### statusmap_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### vrml_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_hostgroup

The Nagios type hostgroup.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostgroup.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### action_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### alias

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### hostgroup_members

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### hostgroup_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type hostgroup

##### members

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_service

The Nagios type service.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_service.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### _naginator_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type service

##### action_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### active_checks_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### check_command

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### check_freshness

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### check_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### check_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contact_groups

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contacts

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### display_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### event_handler

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### event_handler_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### failure_prediction_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### first_notification_delay

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### flap_detection_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### flap_detection_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### freshness_threshold

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### high_flap_threshold

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### hostgroup_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### icon_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### icon_image_alt

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### initial_state

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### is_volatile

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### low_flap_threshold

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### max_check_attempts

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### normal_check_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notifications_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### obsess_over_service

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### parallelize_check

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### passive_checks_enabled

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### process_perf_data

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retain_nonstatus_information

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retain_status_information

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retry_check_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### retry_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### service_description

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### servicegroups

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### stalking_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_servicedependency

The Nagios type servicedependency.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_servicedependency.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### _naginator_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type servicedependency

##### dependency_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### dependent_host_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### dependent_hostgroup_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### dependent_service_description

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### execution_failure_criteria

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### hostgroup_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### inherits_parent

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_failure_criteria

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### service_description

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_serviceescalation

The Nagios type serviceescalation.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_serviceescalation.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### _naginator_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type serviceescalation

##### contact_groups

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### contacts

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### escalation_options

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### escalation_period

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### first_notification

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### host_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### hostgroup_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### last_notification

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notification_interval

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### service_description

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### servicegroup_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_serviceextinfo

The Nagios type serviceextinfo.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_serviceextinfo.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### _naginator_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type serviceextinfo

##### action_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### host_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### icon_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### icon_image_alt

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### service_description

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_servicegroup

The Nagios type servicegroup.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_servicegroup.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### action_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### alias

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### members

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### notes_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### servicegroup_members

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### servicegroup_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type servicegroup

##### target

target

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### nagios_timeperiod

The Nagios type timeperiod.  This resource type is autogenerated using the
model developed in Naginator, and all of the Nagios types are generated using the
same code and the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in Nagios-parseable configuration
files.  By default, the statements will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_timeperiod.cfg`, but
you can send them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but *only*
in the default file locations.  This is an architectural limitation.

    

#### Parameters


##### alias

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### exclude

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### friday

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### monday

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **naginator**:     

##### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### saturday

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### sunday

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### target

target

##### thursday

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### timeperiod_name

- **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type timeperiod

##### tuesday

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.

##### wednesday

Nagios configuration file parameter.




----------------

### notify

Sends an arbitrary message to the agent run-time log.

#### Parameters


##### message

The message to be sent to the log.

##### name

An arbitrary tag for your own reference; the name of the message.

##### withpath

Whether to not to show the full object path.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.




----------------

### package

Manage packages.  There is a basic dichotomy in package
support right now:  Some package types (e.g., yum and apt) can
retrieve their own package files, while others (e.g., rpm and sun) cannot.  For those package formats that cannot retrieve
their own files, you can use the `source` parameter to point to
the correct file.

Puppet will automatically guess the packaging format that you are
using based on the platform you are on, but you can override it
using the `provider` parameter; each provider defines what it
requires in order to function, and you must meet those requirements
to use a given provider.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the files specified as a package's
`adminfile`, `responsefile`, or `source`, the package resource will autorequire
those files.

#### Features

- *holdable*: The provider is capable of placing packages on hold such that they are not automatically upgraded as a result of other package dependencies unless explicit action is taken by a user or another package. Held is considered a superset of installed.
- *installable*: The provider can install packages.
- *purgeable*: The provider can purge packages.  This generally means that all traces of the package are removed, including existing configuration files.  This feature is thus destructive and should be used with the utmost care.
- *uninstallable*: The provider can uninstall packages.
- *upgradeable*: The provider can upgrade to the latest version of a package.  This feature is used by specifying `latest` as the desired value for the package.
- *versionable*: The provider is capable of interrogating the package database for installed version(s), and can select which out of a set of available versions of a package to install if asked.


Provider    | holdable | installable | purgeable | uninstallable | upgradeable | versionable |
----------- | -------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
aix         |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
appdmg      |          | *X*         |           |               |             |             |
apple       |          | *X*         |           |               |             |             |
apt         | *X*      | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
aptitude    | *X*      | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
aptrpm      |          | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
blastwave   |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
dpkg        | *X*      | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         |             |
fink        | *X*      | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
freebsd     |          | *X*         |           | *X*           |             |             |
gem         |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
hpux        |          | *X*         |           | *X*           |             |             |
macports    |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
nim         |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
openbsd     |          | *X*         |           | *X*           |             | *X*         |
pkg         |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
pkgdmg      |          | *X*         |           |               |             |             |
portage     |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
ports       |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
portupgrade |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
rpm         |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
rug         |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
sun         |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
sunfreeware |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
up2date     |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         |             |
urpmi       |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
yum         |          | *X*         | *X*       | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |
zypper      |          | *X*         |           | *X*           | *X*         | *X*         |

#### Parameters


##### adminfile

A file containing package defaults for installing packages.
This is currently only used on Solaris.  The value will be
validated according to system rules, which in the case of
Solaris means that it should either be a fully qualified path
or it should be in `/var/sadm/install/admin`.

##### allowcdrom

Tells apt to allow cdrom sources in the sources.list file.
Normally apt will bail if you try this.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### category

A read-only parameter set by the package.

##### configfiles

Whether configfiles should be kept or replaced.  Most packages
types do not support this parameter.  Valid values are `keep`, `replace`.

##### description

A read-only parameter set by the package.

##### ensure

What state the package should be in.
*latest* only makes sense for those packaging formats that can
retrieve new packages on their own and will throw an error on
those that cannot.  For those packaging systems that allow you
to specify package versions, specify them here.  Similarly,
*purged* is only useful for packaging systems that support
the notion of managing configuration files separately from
'normal' system files.  Valid values are `present` (also called `installed`), `absent`, `purged`, `held`, `latest`.  Values can match `/./`.

##### flavor

Newer versions of OpenBSD support 'flavors', which are
further specifications for which type of package you want.

##### instance

A read-only parameter set by the package.

##### name

The package name.  This is the name that the packaging
system uses internally, which is sometimes (especially on Solaris)
a name that is basically useless to humans.  If you want to
abstract package installation, then you can use aliases to provide
a common name to packages:

    # In the 'openssl' class
    $ssl = $operatingsystem ? {
      solaris => SMCossl,
      default => openssl
    }

    # It is not an error to set an alias to the same value as the
    # object name.
    package { $ssl:
      ensure => installed,
      alias => openssl
    }

    . etc. .

    $ssh = $operatingsystem ? {
      solaris => SMCossh,
      default => openssh
    }

    # Use the alias to specify a dependency, rather than
    # having another selector to figure it out again.
    package { $ssh:
      ensure => installed,
      alias => openssh,
      require => Package[openssl]
    }



##### platform

A read-only parameter set by the package.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **aix**: Installation from AIX Software directory  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/lslpp`, `/usr/sbin/installp`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `aix`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **appdmg**: Package management which copies application bundles to a target.  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/hdiutil`, `/usr/bin/curl`, `/usr/bin/ditto`.      Supported features: `installable`.
* **apple**: Package management based on OS X's builtin packaging system.  This is
    essentially the simplest and least functional package system in existence --
    it only supports installation; no deletion or upgrades.  The provider will
    automatically add the `.pkg` extension, so leave that off when specifying
    the package name.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/installer`.      Supported features: `installable`.
* **apt**: Package management via `apt-get`.  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/debconf-set-selections`, `/usr/bin/apt-get`, `/usr/bin/apt-cache`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `debianubuntu`.    Supported features: `holdable`, `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **aptitude**: Package management via `aptitude`.  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/aptitude`, `/usr/bin/apt-cache`.      Supported features: `holdable`, `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **aptrpm**: Package management via `apt-get` ported to `rpm`.  Required binaries: `apt-get`, `apt-cache`, `rpm`.      Supported features: `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **blastwave**: Package management using Blastwave.org's `pkg-get` command on Solaris.  Required binaries: `pkg-get`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.
* **dpkg**: Package management via `dpkg`.  Because this only uses `dpkg`
    and not `apt`, you must specify the source of any packages you want
    to manage.  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/dpkg-deb`, `/usr/bin/dpkg`, `/usr/bin/dpkg-query`.      Supported features: `holdable`, `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.
* **fink**: Package management via `fink`.  Required binaries: `/sw/bin/fink`, `/sw/bin/dpkg-query`, `/sw/bin/apt-get`, `/sw/bin/apt-cache`.      Supported features: `holdable`, `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **freebsd**: The specific form of package management on FreeBSD.  This is an
    extremely quirky packaging system, in that it freely mixes between
    ports and packages.  Apparently all of the tools are written in Ruby,
    so there are plans to rewrite this support to directly use those
    libraries.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/pkg_delete`, `/usr/sbin/pkg_info`, `/usr/sbin/pkg_add`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`.
* **gem**: Ruby Gem support.  If a URL is passed via `source`, then that URL is used as the
    remote gem repository; if a source is present but is not a valid URL, it will be
    interpreted as the path to a local gem file.  If source is not present at all,
    the gem will be installed from the default gem repositories.  Required binaries: `gem`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **hpux**: HP-UX's packaging system.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/swinstall`, `/usr/sbin/swlist`, `/usr/sbin/swremove`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `hp-ux`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`.
* **macports**: Package management using MacPorts on OS X.

    Supports MacPorts versions and revisions, but not variants.
    Variant preferences may be specified using the MacPorts variants.conf file
    http://guide.macports.org/chunked/internals.configuration-files.html#internals.configuration-files.variants-conf

    When specifying a version in the Puppet DSL, only specify the version, not the revision
    Revisions are only used internally for ensuring the latest version/revision of a port.
    Required binaries: `/opt/local/bin/port`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **nim**: Installation from NIM LPP source  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/nimclient`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **openbsd**: OpenBSD's form of `pkg_add` support.  Required binaries: `pkg_delete`, `pkg_info`, `pkg_add`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `openbsd`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `versionable`.
* **pkg**: OpenSolaris image packaging system. See pkg(5) for more information  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/pkg`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.
* **pkgdmg**: Package management based on Apple's Installer.app and DiskUtility.app.  This package works by checking the contents of a DMG image for Apple pkg or mpkg files. Any number of pkg or mpkg files may exist in the root directory of the DMG file system. Sub directories are not checked for packages.  See `the wiki docs <http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/Package_Management_With_Dmg_Patterns>` for more detail.  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/hdiutil`, `/usr/bin/curl`, `/usr/sbin/installer`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.    Supported features: `installable`.
* **portage**: Provides packaging support for Gentoo's portage system.  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/emerge`, `/usr/bin/eix`, `/usr/bin/eix-update`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `gentoo`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **ports**: Support for FreeBSD's ports.  Again, this still mixes packages and ports.  Required binaries: `/usr/local/sbin/portupgrade`, `/usr/local/sbin/portversion`, `/usr/local/sbin/pkg_deinstall`, `/usr/sbin/pkg_info`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `freebsd`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.
* **portupgrade**: Support for FreeBSD's ports using the portupgrade ports management software.
    Use the port's full origin as the resource name. eg (ports-mgmt/portupgrade)
    for the portupgrade port.  Required binaries: `/usr/local/sbin/portupgrade`, `/usr/local/sbin/portversion`, `/usr/local/sbin/portinstall`, `/usr/local/sbin/pkg_deinstall`, `/usr/sbin/pkg_info`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.
* **rpm**: RPM packaging support; should work anywhere with a working `rpm`
    binary.  Required binaries: `rpm`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **rug**: Support for suse `rug` package manager.  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/rug`, `rpm`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `susesles`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **sun**: Sun's packaging system.  Requires that you specify the source for
    the packages you're managing.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/pkgrm`, `/usr/bin/pkginfo`, `/usr/sbin/pkgadd`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.
* **sunfreeware**: Package management using sunfreeware.com's `pkg-get` command on Solaris.
    At this point, support is exactly the same as `blastwave` support and
    has not actually been tested.  Required binaries: `pkg-get`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.
* **up2date**: Support for Red Hat's proprietary `up2date` package update
    mechanism.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/up2date-nox`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `redhatoelovm` and `lsbdistrelease` == `2.134`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`.
* **urpmi**: Support via `urpmi`.  Required binaries: `urpmi`, `urpmq`, `rpm`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `mandrivamandrake`.    Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **yum**: Support via `yum`.  Required binaries: `yum`, `python`, `rpm`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `fedoracentosredhat`.    Supported features: `installable`, `purgeable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.
* **zypper**: Support for SuSE `zypper` package manager. Found in SLES10sp2+ and SLES11  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/zypper`, `rpm`.      Supported features: `installable`, `uninstallable`, `upgradeable`, `versionable`.

##### responsefile

A file containing any necessary answers to questions asked by
the package.  This is currently used on Solaris and Debian.  The
value will be validated according to system rules, but it should
generally be a fully qualified path.

##### root

A read-only parameter set by the package.

##### source

Where to find the actual package.  This must be a local file
(or on a network file system) or a URL that your specific
packaging type understands; Puppet will not retrieve files for you.

##### status

A read-only parameter set by the package.

##### type

Deprecated form of `provider`.

##### vendor

A read-only parameter set by the package.




----------------

### resources

This is a metatype that can manage other resource types.  Any
metaparams specified here will be passed on to any generated resources,
so you can purge umanaged resources but set `noop` to true so the
purging is only logged and does not actually happen.

#### Parameters


##### name

The name of the type to be managed.

##### purge

Purge unmanaged resources.  This will delete any resource
that is not specified in your configuration
and is not required by any specified resources.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### unless_system_user

This keeps system users from being purged.  By default, it
does not purge users whose UIDs are less than or equal to 500, but you can specify
a different UID as the inclusive limit.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.  Values can match `/^\d+$/`.




----------------

### schedule

Defined schedules for Puppet.  The important thing to understand
about how schedules are currently implemented in Puppet is that they
can only be used to stop a resource from being applied, they never
guarantee that it is applied.

Every time Puppet applies its configuration, it will collect the
list of resources whose schedule does not eliminate them from
running right then, but there is currently no system in place to
guarantee that a given resource runs at a given time.  If you
specify a very  restrictive schedule and Puppet happens to run at a
time within that schedule, then the resources will get applied;
otherwise, that work may never get done.

Thus, it behooves you to use wider scheduling (e.g., over a couple of
hours) combined with periods and repetitions.  For instance, if you
wanted to restrict certain resources to only running once, between
the hours of two and 4 AM, then you would use this schedule:

    schedule { maint:
      range => "2 - 4",
      period => daily,
      repeat => 1
    }

With this schedule, the first time that Puppet runs between 2 and 4 AM,
all resources with this schedule will get applied, but they won't
get applied again between 2 and 4 because they will have already
run once that day, and they won't get applied outside that schedule
because they will be outside the scheduled range.

Puppet automatically creates a schedule for each valid period with the
same name as that period (e.g., hourly and daily).  Additionally,
a schedule named *puppet* is created and used as the default,
with the following attributes:

    schedule { puppet:
      period => hourly,
      repeat => 2
    }

This will cause resources to be applied every 30 minutes by default.


#### Parameters


##### name

The name of the schedule.  This name is used to retrieve the
schedule when assigning it to an object:

    schedule { daily:
      period => daily,
      range => "2 - 4",
    }
  
    exec { "/usr/bin/apt-get update":
      schedule => daily
    }



##### period

The period of repetition for a resource.  Choose from among
a fixed list of *hourly*, *daily*, *weekly*, and *monthly*.
The default is for a resource to get applied every time that
Puppet runs, whatever that period is.

Note that the period defines how often a given resource will get
applied but not when; if you would like to restrict the hours
that a given resource can be applied (e.g., only at night during
a maintenance window) then use the `range` attribute.

If the provided periods are not sufficient, you can provide a
value to the *repeat* attribute, which will cause Puppet to
schedule the affected resources evenly in the period the
specified number of times.  Take this schedule:

    schedule { veryoften:
      period => hourly,
      repeat => 6
    }

This can cause Puppet to apply that resource up to every 10 minutes.

At the moment, Puppet cannot guarantee that level of
repetition; that is, it can run up to every 10 minutes, but
internal factors might prevent it from actually running that
often (e.g., long-running Puppet runs will squash conflictingly scheduled runs).

See the `periodmatch` attribute for tuning whether to match
times by their distance apart or by their specific value.  Valid values are `hourly`, `daily`, `weekly`, `monthly`, `never`.

##### periodmatch

Whether periods should be matched by number (e.g., the two times
are in the same hour) or by distance (e.g., the two times are
60 minutes apart).  Valid values are `number`, `distance`.

##### range

The earliest and latest that a resource can be applied.  This
is always a range within a 24 hour period, and hours must be
specified in numbers between 0 and 23, inclusive.  Minutes and
seconds can be provided, using the normal colon as a separator.
For instance:

    schedule { maintenance:
      range => "1:30 - 4:30"
    }

This is mostly useful for restricting certain resources to being
applied in maintenance windows or during off-peak hours.

##### repeat

How often the application gets repeated in a given period.
Defaults to 1. Must be an integer.




----------------

### selboolean

Manages SELinux booleans on systems with SELinux support.  The supported booleans
are any of the ones found in `/selinux/booleans/`.

#### Parameters


##### name

The name of the SELinux boolean to be managed.

##### persistent

If set true, SELinux booleans will be written to disk and persist accross reboots.
The default is `false`.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **getsetsebool**: Manage SELinux booleans using the getsebool and setsebool binaries.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/getsebool`, `/usr/sbin/setsebool`.    

##### value

Whether the the SELinux boolean should be enabled or disabled.  Valid values are `on`, `off`.




----------------

### selmodule

Manages loading and unloading of SELinux policy modules
on the system.  Requires SELinux support.  See man semodule(8)
for more information on SELinux policy modules.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the file containing this SELinux policy module (which is either explicitly specified in the `selmodulepath` attribute or will be found at {`selmoduledir`}/{`name`}.pp), the selmodule resource will autorequire that file.

#### Parameters


##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### name

The name of the SELinux policy to be managed.  You should not
include the customary trailing .pp extension.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **semodule**: Manage SELinux policy modules using the semodule binary.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/semodule`.    

##### selmoduledir

The directory to look for the compiled pp module file in.
Currently defaults to `/usr/share/selinux/targeted`.  If selmodulepath
is not specified the module will be looked for in this directory in a
in a file called NAME.pp, where NAME is the value of the name parameter.

##### selmodulepath

The full path to the compiled .pp policy module.  You only need to use
this if the module file is not in the directory pointed at by selmoduledir.

##### syncversion

If set to `true`, the policy will be reloaded if the
version found in the on-disk file differs from the loaded
version.  If set to `false` (the default) the the only check
that will be made is if the policy is loaded at all or not.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.




----------------

### service

Manage running services.  Service support unfortunately varies
widely by platform --- some platforms have very little if any
concept of a running service, and some have a very codified and
powerful concept.  Puppet's service support will generally be able
to do the right thing regardless (e.g., if there is no
'status' command, then Puppet will look in the process table for a
command matching the service name), but the more information you
can provide, the better behaviour you will get. In particular, any
virtual services that don't have a predictable entry in the process table
(for example, `network` on Red Hat/CentOS systems) will manifest odd
behavior on restarts if you don't specify `hasstatus` or a `status`
command.

Note that if a `service` receives an event from another resource,
the service will get restarted. The actual command to restart the
service depends on the platform. You can provide an explicit command
for restarting with the `restart` attribute, or use the init script's
restart command with the `hasrestart` attribute; if you do neither,
the service's stop and start commands will be used.

#### Features

- *controllable*: The provider uses a control variable.
- *enableable*: The provider can enable and disable the service
- *refreshable*: The provider can restart the service.


Provider    | controllable | enableable | refreshable |
----------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------- |
base        |              |            | *X*         |
bsd         |              | *X*        | *X*         |
daemontools |              | *X*        | *X*         |
debian      |              | *X*        | *X*         |
freebsd     |              | *X*        | *X*         |
gentoo      |              | *X*        | *X*         |
init        |              |            | *X*         |
launchd     |              | *X*        | *X*         |
redhat      |              | *X*        | *X*         |
runit       |              | *X*        | *X*         |
smf         |              | *X*        | *X*         |
src         |              |            | *X*         |

#### Parameters


##### binary

The path to the daemon.  This is only used for
systems that do not support init scripts.  This binary will be
used to start the service if no `start` parameter is
provided.

##### control

The control variable used to manage services (originally for HP-UX).
Defaults to the upcased service name plus `START` replacing dots with
underscores, for those providers that support the `controllable` feature.

##### enable

Whether a service should be enabled to start at boot.
This property behaves quite differently depending on the platform;
wherever possible, it relies on local tools to enable or disable
a given service.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.  Requires features enableable.

##### ensure

Whether a service should be running.  Valid values are `stopped` (also called `false`), `running` (also called `true`).

##### hasrestart

Specify that an init script has a `restart` option.  Otherwise,
the init script's `stop` and `start` methods are used.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### hasstatus

Declare the the service's init script has a
functional status command.  Based on testing, it was found
that a large number of init scripts on different platforms do
not support any kind of status command; thus, you must specify
manually whether the service you are running has such a
command. Alternately, you can provide a specific command using the
`status` attribute.

If you specify neither of these, then Puppet will look for the
service name in the process table. Be aware that 'virtual' init
scripts such as networking will respond poorly to refresh events
(via notify and subscribe relationships) if you don't override
this default behavior.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### manifest

Specify a command to config a service, or a path to a manifest to do so.

##### name

The name of the service to run.  This name is used to find
the service in whatever service subsystem it is in.

##### path

The search path for finding init scripts.  Multiple values should
be separated by colons or provided as an array.

##### pattern

The pattern to search for in the process table.
This is used for stopping services on platforms that do not
support init scripts, and is also used for determining service
status on those service whose init scripts do not include a status
command.

If this is left unspecified and is needed to check the status
of a service, then the service name will be used instead.

The pattern can be a simple string or any legal Ruby pattern.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **base**: The simplest form of service support.

  You have to specify enough about your service for this to work; the
  minimum you can specify is a binary for starting the process, and this
  same binary will be searched for in the process table to stop the
  service.  It is preferable to specify start, stop, and status commands,
  akin to how you would do so using `init`.

    Required binaries: `kill`.      Supported features: `refreshable`.
* **bsd**: FreeBSD's (and probably NetBSD?) form of `init`-style service management.

  Uses `rc.conf.d` for service enabling and disabling.

      Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **daemontools**: Daemontools service management.

  This provider manages daemons running supervised by D.J.Bernstein daemontools.
  It tries to detect the service directory, with by order of preference:

  * /service
  * /etc/service
  * /var/lib/svscan

  The daemon directory should be placed in a directory that can be
  by default in:

  * /var/lib/service
  * /etc

  or this can be overriden in the service resource parameters::

      service { "myservice":
provider => "daemontools",
path => "/path/to/daemons",
      }

  This provider supports out of the box:

  * start/stop (mapped to enable/disable)
  * enable/disable
  * restart
  * status

  If a service has `ensure => "running"`, it will link /path/to/daemon to
  /path/to/service, which will automatically enable the service.

  If a service has `ensure => "stopped"`, it will only down the service, not
  remove the /path/to/service link.

    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/svc`, `/usr/bin/svstat`.      Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **debian**: Debian's form of `init`-style management.

  The only difference is that this supports service enabling and disabling
  via `update-rc.d` and determines enabled status via `invoke-rc.d`.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/update-rc.d`, `/usr/sbin/invoke-rc.d`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `debianubuntu`.    Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **freebsd**: Provider for FreeBSD. Makes use of rcvar argument of init scripts and parses/edits rc files.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `freebsd`.    Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **gentoo**: Gentoo's form of `init`-style service management.

  Uses `rc-update` for service enabling and disabling.

    Required binaries: `/sbin/rc-update`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `gentoo`.    Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **init**: Standard init service management.

  This provider assumes that the init script has no `status` command,
  because so few scripts do, so you need to either provide a status
  command or specify via `hasstatus` that one already exists in the
  init script.

      Supported features: `refreshable`.
* **launchd**: launchd service management framework.

  This provider manages jobs with launchd, which is the default service framework for
  Mac OS X and is potentially available for use on other platforms.

  See:
  
  * http://developer.apple.com/macosx/launchd.html
  * http://launchd.macosforge.org/

  This provider reads plists out of the following directories:
  
  * /System/Library/LaunchDaemons
  * /System/Library/LaunchAgents
  * /Library/LaunchDaemons
  * /Library/LaunchAgents

  ...and builds up a list of services based upon each plist's "Label" entry.

  This provider supports:
  
  * ensure => running/stopped,
  * enable => true/false
  * status
  * restart

  Here is how the Puppet states correspond to launchd states:
  
  * stopped --- job unloaded
  * started --- job loaded
  * enabled --- 'Disable' removed from job plist file
  * disabled --- 'Disable' added to job plist file

  Note that this allows you to do something launchctl can't do, which is to
  be in a state of "stopped/enabled or "running/disabled".

    Required binaries: `/bin/launchctl`, `/usr/bin/plutil`, `/usr/bin/sw_vers`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.    Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **redhat**: Red Hat's (and probably many others) form of `init`-style service management:

  Uses `chkconfig` for service enabling and disabling.

    Required binaries: `/sbin/chkconfig`, `/sbin/service`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `redhatfedorasusecentosslesoelovm`.    Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **runit**: Runit service management.

  This provider manages daemons running supervised by Runit.
  It tries to detect the service directory, with by order of preference:

  * /service
  * /var/service
  * /etc/service

  The daemon directory should be placed in a directory that can be
  by default in:

  * /etc/sv

  or this can be overriden in the service resource parameters::

      service { "myservice":
provider => "runit",
path => "/path/to/daemons",
      }

  This provider supports out of the box:

  * start/stop
  * enable/disable
  * restart
  * status


  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/sv`.      Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **smf**: Support for Sun's new Service Management Framework.

  Starting a service is effectively equivalent to enabling it, so there is
  only support for starting and stopping services, which also enables and
  disables them, respectively.

  By specifying manifest => "/path/to/service.xml", the SMF manifest will
  be imported if it does not exist.

    Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/svcadm`, `/usr/bin/svcs`, `/usr/sbin/svccfg`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.    Supported features: `enableable`, `refreshable`.
* **src**: Support for AIX's System Resource controller.

  Services are started/stopped based on the stopsrc and startsrc
  commands, and some services can be refreshed with refresh command.

  * Enabling and disableing services is not supported, as it requires
  modifications to /etc/inittab.

  * Starting and stopping groups of subsystems is not yet supported
    Required binaries: `/usr/bin/refresh`, `/usr/bin/stopsrc`, `/usr/bin/startsrc`, `/usr/bin/lssrc`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `aix`.    Supported features: `refreshable`.

##### restart

Specify a *restart* command manually.  If left
unspecified, the service will be stopped and then started.

##### start

Specify a *start* command manually.  Most service subsystems
support a `start` command, so this will not need to be
specified.

##### status

Specify a *status* command manually.  This command must
return 0 if the service is running and a nonzero value otherwise.
Ideally, these return codes should conform to
[the LSB's specification for init script status actions](http://refspecs.freestandards.org/LSB_3.1.1/LSB-Core-generic/LSB-Core-generic/iniscrptact.html),
but puppet only considers the difference between 0 and nonzero
to be relevant.

If left unspecified, the status method will be determined
automatically, usually by looking for the service in the process
table.

##### stop

Specify a *stop* command manually.




----------------

### ssh_authorized_key

Manages SSH authorized keys. Currently only type 2 keys are
supported.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user account in which this 
SSH key should be installed, the `ssh_authorized_key` resource will autorequire
that user.

#### Parameters


##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### key

The key itself; generally a long string of hex digits.

##### name

The SSH key comment. This attribute is currently used as a
system-wide primary key and therefore has to be unique.

##### options

Key options, see sshd(8) for possible values. Multiple values
should be specified as an array.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **parsed**: Parse and generate authorized_keys files for SSH.    

##### target

The absolute filename in which to store the SSH key. This
property is optional and should only be used in cases where keys
are stored in a non-standard location (i.e.` not in
`~user/.ssh/authorized_keys`).

##### type

The encryption type used: ssh-dss or ssh-rsa.  Valid values are `ssh-dss` (also called `dsa`), `ssh-rsa` (also called `rsa`).

##### user

The user account in which the SSH key should be installed.
The resource will automatically depend on this user.




----------------

### sshkey

Installs and manages ssh host keys.  At this point, this type
only knows how to install keys into `/etc/ssh/ssh_known_hosts`.  See 
the `ssh_authorized_key` type to manage authorized keys.

#### Parameters


##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### host_aliases

Any aliases the host might have.  Multiple values must be
specified as an array.

##### key

The key itself; generally a long string of hex digits.

##### name

The host name that the key is associated with.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **parsed**: Parse and generate host-wide known hosts files for SSH.    

##### target

The file in which to store the ssh key.  Only used by
the `parsed` provider.

##### type

The encryption type used.  Probably ssh-dss or ssh-rsa.  Valid values are `ssh-dss` (also called `dsa`), `ssh-rsa` (also called `rsa`).




----------------

### stage

A resource type for specifying run stages.  The actual stage should
be specified on resources:
    
    class { foo: stage => pre }

And you must manually control stage order:

    stage { pre: before => Stage[main] }

You automatically get a 'main' stage created, and by default all resources
get inserted into that stage.

You can only set stages on class resources, not normal builtin resources.

#### Parameters


##### name

The name of the stage. This will be used as the 'stage' for each resource.




----------------

### tidy

Remove unwanted files based on specific criteria.  Multiple
criteria are OR'd together, so a file that is too large but is not
old enough will still get tidied.

If you don't specify either `age` or `size`, then all files will
be removed.

This resource type works by generating a file resource for every file
that should be deleted and then letting that resource perform the
actual deletion.


#### Parameters


##### age

Tidy files whose age is equal to or greater than
the specified time.  You can choose seconds, minutes,
hours, days, or weeks by specifying the first letter of any
of those words (e.g., '1w').

Specifying 0 will remove all files.

##### backup

Whether tidied files should be backed up.  Any values are passed
directly to the file resources used for actual file deletion, so use
its backup documentation to determine valid values.

##### matches

One or more (shell type) file glob patterns, which restrict
the list of files to be tidied to those whose basenames match
at least one of the patterns specified. Multiple patterns can
be specified using an array.

Example:

    tidy { "/tmp":
      age => "1w",
      recurse => 1,
      matches => [ "[0-9]pub*.tmp", "*.temp", "tmpfile?" ]
    }

This removes files from `/tmp` if they are one week old or older,
are not in a subdirectory and match one of the shell globs given.

Note that the patterns are matched against the basename of each
file -- that is, your glob patterns should not have any '/'
characters in them, since you are only specifying against the last
bit of the file.

Finally, note that you must now specify a non-zero/non-false value
for recurse if matches is used, as matches only apply to files found
by recursion (there's no reason to use static patterns match against
a statically determined path).  Requiering explicit recursion clears
up a common source of confusion.

##### path

- **namevar**

The path to the file or directory to manage.  Must be fully
qualified.

##### recurse

If target is a directory, recursively descend
into the directory looking for files to tidy.  Valid values are `true`, `false`, `inf`.  Values can match `/^[0-9]+$/`.

##### rmdirs

Tidy directories in addition to files; that is, remove
directories whose age is older than the specified criteria.
This will only remove empty directories, so all contained
files must also be tidied before a directory gets removed.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### size

Tidy files whose size is equal to or greater than
the specified size.  Unqualified values are in kilobytes, but
*b*, *k*, and *m* can be appended to specify *bytes*, *kilobytes*,
and *megabytes*, respectively.  Only the first character is
significant, so the full word can also be used.

##### type

Set the mechanism for determining age.  Valid values are `atime`, `mtime`, `ctime`.




----------------

### user

Manage users.  This type is mostly built to manage system
users, so it is lacking some features useful for managing normal
users.

This resource type uses the prescribed native tools for creating
groups and generally uses POSIX APIs for retrieving information
about them.  It does not directly modify `/etc/passwd` or anything.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the user's primary group (as provided in the `gid` attribute), the user resource will autorequire that group. If Puppet is managing any role accounts corresponding to the user's roles, the user resource will autorequire those role accounts.

#### Features

- *allows_duplicates*: The provider supports duplicate users with the same UID.
- *manages_expiry*: The provider can manage the expiry date for a user.
- *manages_homedir*: The provider can create and remove home directories.
- *manages_password_age*: The provider can set age requirements and restrictions for passwords.
- *manages_passwords*: The provider can modify user passwords, by accepting a password hash.
- *manages_solaris_rbac*: The provider can manage roles and normal users
- *system_users*: The provider allows you to create system users with lower UIDs.


Provider         | allows duplicates | manages expiry | manages homedir | manages password age | manages passwords | manages solaris rbac | system users |
---------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | --------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- | -------------------- | ------------ |
directoryservice |                   |                |                 |                      | *X*               |                      |              |
hpuxuseradd      | *X*               |                | *X*             |                      |                   |                      |              |
ldap             |                   |                |                 |                      | *X*               |                      |              |
pw               | *X*               |                | *X*             |                      |                   |                      |              |
user_role_add    | *X*               |                | *X*             | *X*                  | *X*               | *X*                  |              |
useradd          | *X*               | *X*            | *X*             |                      |                   |                      | *X*          |

#### Parameters


##### allowdupe

Whether to allow duplicate UIDs.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### auth_membership

Whether specified auths should be treated as the only auths
of which the user is a member or whether they should merely
be treated as the minimum membership list.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

##### auths

The auths the user has.  Multiple auths should be
specified as an array.  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

##### comment

A description of the user.  Generally is a user's full name.

##### ensure

The basic state that the object should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`, `role`.

##### expiry

The expiry date for this user. Must be provided in
a zero padded YYYY-MM-DD format - e.g 2010-02-19.  Requires features manages_expiry.

##### gid

The user's primary group.  Can be specified numerically or
by name.

##### groups

The groups of which the user is a member.  The primary
group should not be listed.  Multiple groups should be
specified as an array.

##### home

The home directory of the user.  The directory must be created
separately and is not currently checked for existence.

##### key_membership

Whether specified key value pairs should be treated as the only attributes
of the user or whether they should merely
be treated as the minimum list.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

##### keys

Specify user attributes in an array of keyvalue pairs  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

##### managehome

Whether to manage the home directory when managing the user.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### membership

Whether specified groups should be treated as the only groups
of which the user is a member or whether they should merely
be treated as the minimum membership list.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

##### name

User name.  While limitations are determined for
each operating system, it is generally a good idea to keep to
the degenerate 8 characters, beginning with a letter.

##### password

The user's password, in whatever encrypted format the local machine requires. Be sure to enclose any value that includes a dollar sign ($) in single quotes (').  Requires features manages_passwords.

##### password_max_age

The maximum amount of time in days a password may be used before it must be changed  Requires features manages_password_age.

##### password_min_age

The minimum amount of time in days a password must be used before it may be changed  Requires features manages_password_age.

##### profile_membership

Whether specified roles should be treated as the only roles
of which the user is a member or whether they should merely
be treated as the minimum membership list.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

##### profiles

The profiles the user has.  Multiple profiles should be
specified as an array.  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

##### project

The name of the project associated with a user  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **directoryservice**: User management using DirectoryService on OS X.  Required binaries: `/usr/bin/dscl`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `darwin`.    Supported features: `manages_passwords`.
* **hpuxuseradd**: User management for hp-ux! Undocumented switch to special usermod because HP-UX regular usermod is TOO STUPID to change stuff while the user is logged in.  Required binaries: `/usr/sam/lbin/usermod.sam`, `/usr/sam/lbin/userdel.sam`, `/usr/sbin/useradd`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `hp-ux`.    Supported features: `allows_duplicates`, `manages_homedir`.
* **ldap**: User management via `ldap`.  This provider requires that you
    have valid values for all of the ldap-related settings,
    including `ldapbase`.  You will also almost definitely need settings
    for `ldapuser` and `ldappassword`, so that your clients can write
    to ldap.

    Note that this provider will automatically generate a UID for you if
    you do not specify one, but it is a potentially expensive operation,
    as it iterates across all existing users to pick the appropriate next
    one.      Supported features: `manages_passwords`.
* **pw**: User management via `pw` on FreeBSD.  Required binaries: `pw`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `freebsd`.    Supported features: `allows_duplicates`, `manages_homedir`.
* **user_role_add**: User management inherits `useradd` and adds logic to manage roles on Solaris using roleadd.  Required binaries: `usermod`, `roleadd`, `roledel`, `userdel`, `rolemod`, `passwd`, `useradd`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.    Supported features: `allows_duplicates`, `manages_homedir`, `manages_password_age`, `manages_passwords`, `manages_solaris_rbac`.
* **useradd**: User management via `useradd` and its ilk.  Note that you will need to install the `Shadow Password` Ruby library often known as ruby-libshadow to manage user passwords.  Required binaries: `usermod`, `userdel`, `chage`, `useradd`.      Supported features: `allows_duplicates`, `manages_expiry`, `manages_homedir`, `system_users`.

##### role_membership

Whether specified roles should be treated as the only roles
of which the user is a member or whether they should merely
be treated as the minimum membership list.  Valid values are `inclusive`, `minimum`.

##### roles

The roles the user has.  Multiple roles should be
specified as an array.  Requires features manages_solaris_rbac.

##### shell

The user's login shell.  The shell must exist and be
executable.

##### system

Whether the user is a system user with lower UID.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### uid

The user ID.  Must be specified numerically.  For new users
being created, if no user ID is specified then one will be
chosen automatically, which will likely result in the same user
having different IDs on different systems, which is not
recommended.  This is especially noteworthy if you use Puppet
to manage the same user on both Darwin and other platforms,
since Puppet does the ID generation for you on Darwin, but the
tools do so on other platforms.




----------------

### yumrepo

The client-side description of a yum repository. Repository
configurations are found by parsing `/etc/yum.conf` and
the files indicated by the `reposdir` option in that file 
(see yum.conf(5) for details)

Most parameters are identical to the ones documented
in yum.conf(5)

Continuation lines that yum supports for example for the
baseurl are not supported. No attempt is made to access
files included with the **include** directive

#### Parameters


##### baseurl

The URL for this repository.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### cost

Cost of this repository.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/\d+/`.

##### descr

A human readable description of the repository.
This corresponds to the name parameter in yum.conf(5).
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### enabled

Whether this repository is enabled or disabled. Possible
values are '0', and '1'.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

##### enablegroups

Determines whether yum will allow the use of
package groups for this  repository. Possible
values are '0', and '1'.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

##### exclude

List of shell globs. Matching packages will never be
considered in updates or installs for this repo.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### failovermethod

Either 'roundrobin' or 'priority'.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/roundrobin|priority/`.

##### gpgcheck

Whether to check the GPG signature on packages installed
from this repository. Possible values are '0', and '1'.

Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

##### gpgkey

The URL for the GPG key with which packages from this
repository are signed.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### http_caching

Either 'packages' or 'all' or 'none'.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/packages|all|none/`.

##### include

A URL from which to include the config.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### includepkgs

List of shell globs. If this is set, only packages
matching one of the globs will be considered for
update or install.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### keepalive

Either '1' or '0'. This tells yum whether or not HTTP/1.1
keepalive  should  be  used with this repository.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

##### metadata_expire

Number of seconds after which the metadata will expire.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/[0-9]+/`.

##### mirrorlist

The URL that holds the list of mirrors for this repository.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### name

The name of the repository.  This corresponds to the
repositoryid parameter in yum.conf(5).

##### priority

Priority of this repository from 1-99. Requires that
the priorities plugin is installed and enabled.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/[1-9][0-9]?/`.

##### protect

Enable or disable protection for this repository. Requires
that the protectbase plugin is installed and enabled.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/(0|1)/`.

##### proxy

URL to the proxy server for this repository.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### proxy_password

Password for this proxy.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### proxy_username

Username for this proxy.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/.*/`.

##### timeout

Number of seconds to wait for a connection before timing
out.
Set this to 'absent' to remove it from the file completely  Valid values are `absent`.  Values can match `/[0-9]+/`.




----------------

### zfs

Manage zfs. Create destroy and set properties on zfs instances.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the zpool at the root of this zfs instance, the zfs resource will autorequire it. If Puppet is managing any parent zfs instances, the zfs resource will autorequire them.

#### Parameters


##### compression

The compression property.

##### copies

The copies property.

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### mountpoint

The mountpoint property.

##### name

The full name for this filesystem. (including the zpool)

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **solaris**: Provider for Solaris zfs.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/zfs`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.  

##### quota

The quota property.

##### reservation

The reservation property.

##### sharenfs

The sharenfs property.

##### snapdir

The snapdir property.




----------------

### zone

Solaris zones.

**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the directory specified as the root of the zone's filesystem (with the `path` attribute), the zone resource will autorequire that directory.

#### Parameters


##### autoboot

Whether the zone should automatically boot.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

##### clone

Instead of installing the zone, clone it from another zone.
If the zone root resides on a zfs file system, a snapshot will be
used to create the clone, is it redisides on ufs, a copy of the zone
will be used. The zone you clone from must not be running.

##### create_args

Arguments to the zonecfg create command.  This can be used to create branded zones.

##### ensure

The running state of the zone.  The valid states directly reflect
the states that `zoneadm` provides.  The states are linear,
in that a zone must be `configured` then `installed`, and
only then can be `running`.  Note also that `halt` is currently
used to stop zones.

##### id

The numerical ID of the zone.  This number is autogenerated
and cannot be changed.

##### inherit

The list of directories that the zone inherits from the global
zone.  All directories must be fully qualified.

##### install_args

Arguments to the zoneadm install command.  This can be used to create branded zones.

##### ip

The IP address of the zone.  IP addresses must be specified
with the interface, separated by a colon, e.g.: bge0:192.168.0.1.
For multiple interfaces, specify them in an array.

##### iptype

The IP stack type of the zone. Can either be 'shared' or 'exclusive'.  Valid values are `shared`, `exclusive`.

##### name

The name of the zone.

##### path

The root of the zone's filesystem.  Must be a fully qualified
file name.  If you include '%s' in the path, then it will be
replaced with the zone's name.  At this point, you cannot use
Puppet to move a zone.

##### pool

The resource pool for this zone.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **solaris**: Provider for Solaris Zones.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/zonecfg`, `/usr/sbin/zoneadm`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.  

##### realhostname

The actual hostname of the zone.

##### shares

Number of FSS CPU shares allocated to the zone.

##### sysidcfg

The text to go into the sysidcfg file when the zone is first
booted.  The best way is to use a template:

    # $templatedir/sysidcfg
    system_locale=en_US
    timezone=GMT
    terminal=xterms
    security_policy=NONE
    root_password=<%= password %>
    timeserver=localhost
    name_service=DNS {domain_name=<%= domain %> name_server=<%= nameserver %>}
    network_interface=primary {hostname=<%= realhostname %>
      ip_address=<%= ip %>
      netmask=<%= netmask %>
      protocol_ipv6=no
      default_route=<%= defaultroute %>}
    nfs4_domain=dynamic

And then call that:

    zone { myzone:
      ip => "bge0:192.168.0.23",
      sysidcfg => template(sysidcfg),
      path => "/opt/zones/myzone",
      realhostname => "fully.qualified.domain.name"
    }

The sysidcfg only matters on the first booting of the zone,
so Puppet only checks for it at that time.




----------------

### zpool

Manage zpools. Create and delete zpools. The provider WILL NOT SYNC, only report differences.

Supports vdevs with mirrors, raidz, logs and spares.

#### Parameters


##### disk

The disk(s) for this pool. Can be an array or space separated string

##### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in.  Valid values are `present`, `absent`.

##### log

Log disks for this pool. (doesn't support mirroring yet)

##### mirror

List of all the devices to mirror for this pool. Each mirror should be a
space separated string:

    mirror => ["disk1 disk2", "disk3 disk4"],



##### pool

- **namevar**

The name for this pool.

##### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will
seldom need to specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the
appropriate provider for your platform.  Available providers are:

* **solaris**: Provider for Solaris zpool.  Required binaries: `/usr/sbin/zpool`.    Default for `operatingsystem` == `solaris`.  

##### raid_parity

Determines parity when using raidz property.

##### raidz

List of all the devices to raid for this pool. Should be an array of
space separated strings:

    raidz => ["disk1 disk2", "disk3 disk4"],



##### spare

Spare disk(s) for this pool.




----------------

*This page autogenerated on Mon Mar 18 11:29:48 -0700 2013*
