---
layout: default
title: "Configuration Reference"
canonical: "/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html"
---


# Configuration Reference



**This page is autogenerated; any changes will get overwritten** *(last generated on 2014-06-12 11:06:27 -0700)*

## Configuration Settings

* Each of these settings can be specified in `puppet.conf` or on the
  command line.
* When using boolean settings on the command line, use `--setting` and
  `--no-setting` instead of `--setting (true|false)`.
* Settings can be interpolated as `$variables` in other settings; `$environment`
  is special, in that puppet master will interpolate each agent node's
  environment instead of its own.
* Multiple values should be specified as comma-separated lists; multiple
  directories should be separated with the system path separator (usually
  a colon).
* Settings that represent time intervals should be specified in duration format:
  an integer immediately followed by one of the units 'y' (years of 365 days),
  'd' (days), 'h' (hours), 'm' (minutes), or 's' (seconds). The unit cannot be
  combined with other units, and defaults to seconds when omitted. Examples are
  '3600' which is equivalent to '1h' (one hour), and '1825d' which is equivalent
  to '5y' (5 years).
* Settings that take a single file or directory can optionally set the owner,
  group, and mode for their value: `rundir = $vardir/run { owner = puppet,
  group = puppet, mode = 644 }`
* The Puppet executables will ignore any setting that isn't relevant to
  their function.

See the [configuration guide][confguide] for more details.

[confguide]: http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/configuring.html

* * *

### agent_catalog_run_lockfile

A lock file to indicate that a puppet agent catalog run is currently in progress.
The file contains the pid of the process that holds the lock on the catalog run.

- *Default*: $statedir/agent_catalog_run.lock

### agent_disabled_lockfile

A lock file to indicate that puppet agent runs have been administratively
disabled.  File contains a JSON object with state information.

- *Default*: $statedir/agent_disabled.lock

### allow_duplicate_certs

Whether to allow a new certificate
request to overwrite an existing certificate.

- *Default*: false

### allow_variables_with_dashes

Permit hyphens (`-`) in variable names and issue deprecation warnings about
them. This setting **should always be `false`;** setting it to `true`
will cause subtle and wide-ranging bugs. It will be removed in a future version.

Hyphenated variables caused major problems in the language, but were allowed
between Puppet 2.7.3 and 2.7.14. If you used them during this window, we
apologize for the inconvenience --- you can temporarily set this to `true`
in order to upgrade, and can rename your variables at your leisure. Please
revert it to `false` after you have renamed all affected variables.

- *Default*: false

### archive_file_server

During an inspect run, the file bucket server to archive files to if archive_files is set.

- *Default*: $server

### archive_files

During an inspect run, whether to archive files whose contents are audited to a file bucket.

- *Default*: false

### async_storeconfigs

Whether to use a queueing system to provide asynchronous database integration.
Requires that `puppet queue` be running.

- *Default*: false

### autoflush

Whether log files should always flush to disk.

- *Default*: true

### autosign

Whether (and how) to autosign certificate requests. This setting
is only relevant on a puppet master acting as a certificate authority (CA).

Valid values are true (autosigns all certificate requests; not recommended),
false (disables autosigning certificates), or the absolute path to a file.

The file specified in this setting may be either a **configuration file**
or a **custom policy executable.** Puppet will automatically determine
what it is: If the Puppet user (see the `user` setting) can execute the
file, it will be treated as a policy executable; otherwise, it will be
treated as a config file.

If a custom policy executable is configured, the CA puppet master will run it
every time it receives a CSR. The executable will be passed the subject CN of the
request _as a command line argument,_ and the contents of the CSR in PEM format
_on stdin._ It should exit with a status of 0 if the cert should be autosigned
and non-zero if the cert should not be autosigned.

If a certificate request is not autosigned, it will persist for review. An admin
user can use the `puppet cert sign` command to manually sign it, or can delete
the request.

For info on autosign configuration files, see
[the guide to Puppet's config files](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/configuring.html).

- *Default*: $confdir/autosign.conf

### basemodulepath

The search path for **global** modules. Should be specified as a
list of directories separated by the system path separator character. (The
POSIX path separator is ':', and the Windows path separator is ';'.)

If you are using directory environments, these are the modules that will
be used by _all_ environments. Note that the `modules` directory of the active
environment will have priority over any global directories. For more info, see
http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/environments.html

This setting also provides the default value for the deprecated `modulepath`
setting, which is used when directory environments are disabled.

- *Default*: $confdir/modules:/usr/share/puppet/modules

### biff

Turns on Biff the catalog builder, future parser, and future evaluator.
This is an experimental feature - and this setting may go away before
release of Pupet 3.6.

- *Default*: false

### bindaddress

The address a listening server should bind to.

- *Default*: 0.0.0.0

### binder

Turns the binding system on or off. This includes bindings in modules.
The binding system aggregates data from modules and other locations and makes them available for lookup.
The binding system is experimental and any or all of it may change.

- *Default*: false

### binder_config

The binder configuration file. Puppet reads this file on each request to configure the bindings system.
If set to nil (the default), a $confdir/binder_config.yaml is optionally loaded. If it does not exists, a default configuration
is used. If the setting :binding_config is specified, it must reference a valid and existing yaml file.

- *Default*:

### bucketdir

Where FileBucket files are stored.

- *Default*: $vardir/bucket

### ca

Whether the master should function as a certificate authority.

- *Default*: true

### ca_name

The name to use the Certificate Authority certificate.

- *Default*: Puppet CA: $certname

### ca_port

The port to use for the certificate authority.

- *Default*: $masterport

### ca_server

The server to use for certificate
authority requests.  It's a separate server because it cannot
and does not need to horizontally scale.

- *Default*: $server

### ca_ttl

The default TTL for new certificates.
This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).

- *Default*: 5y

### cacert

The CA certificate.

- *Default*: $cadir/ca_crt.pem

### cacrl

The certificate revocation list (CRL) for the CA. Will be used if present but otherwise ignored.

- *Default*: $cadir/ca_crl.pem

### cadir

The root directory for the certificate authority.

- *Default*: $ssldir/ca

### cakey

The CA private key.

- *Default*: $cadir/ca_key.pem

### capass

Where the CA stores the password for the private key.

- *Default*: $caprivatedir/ca.pass

### caprivatedir

Where the CA stores private certificate information.

- *Default*: $cadir/private

### capub

The CA public key.

- *Default*: $cadir/ca_pub.pem

### catalog_cache_terminus

How to store cached catalogs. Valid values are 'json', 'msgpack' and 'yaml'. The agent application defaults to 'json'.

- *Default*:

### catalog_format

(Deprecated for 'preferred_serialization_format') What format to
use to dump the catalog.  Only supports 'marshal' and 'yaml'.  Only
matters on the client, since it asks the server for a specific format.


### catalog_terminus

Where to get node catalogs.  This is useful to change if, for instance,
you'd like to pre-compile catalogs and store them in memcached or some other easily-accessed store.

- *Default*: compiler

### cert_inventory

The inventory file. This is a text file to which the CA writes a
complete listing of all certificates.

- *Default*: $cadir/inventory.txt

### certdir

The certificate directory.

- *Default*: $ssldir/certs

### certdnsnames

The `certdnsnames` setting is no longer functional,
after CVE-2011-3872. We ignore the value completely.

For your own certificate request you can set `dns_alt_names` in the
configuration and it will apply locally.  There is no configuration option to
set DNS alt names, or any other `subjectAltName` value, for another nodes
certificate.

Alternately you can use the `--dns_alt_names` command line option to set the
labels added while generating your own CSR.


### certificate_expire_warning

The window of time leading up to a certificate's expiration that a notification
will be logged. This applies to CA, master, and agent certificates. This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).

- *Default*: 60d

### certificate_revocation

Whether certificate revocation should be supported by downloading a
Certificate Revocation List (CRL)
to all clients.  If enabled, CA chaining will almost definitely not work.

- *Default*: true

### certname

The name to use when handling certificates.  Defaults
to the fully qualified domain name.

- *Default*: (the system's fully qualified domain name)

### classfile

The file in which puppet agent stores a list of the classes
associated with the retrieved configuration.  Can be loaded in
the separate `puppet` executable using the `--loadclasses`
option.

- *Default*: $statedir/classes.txt

### client_datadir

The directory in which serialized data is stored on the client.

- *Default*: $vardir/client_data

### clientbucketdir

Where FileBucket files are stored locally.

- *Default*: $vardir/clientbucket

### clientyamldir

The directory in which client-side YAML data is stored.

- *Default*: $vardir/client_yaml

### code

Code to parse directly.  This is essentially only used
by `puppet`, and should only be set if you're writing your own Puppet
executable.


### color

Whether to use colors when logging to the console.  Valid values are
`ansi` (equivalent to `true`), `html`, and `false`, which produces no color.
Defaults to false on Windows, as its console does not support ansi colors.

- *Default*: ansi

### confdir

The main Puppet configuration directory.  The default for this setting
is calculated based on the user.  If the process is running as root or
the user that Puppet is supposed to run as, it defaults to a system
directory, but if it's running as any other user, it defaults to being
in the user's home directory.

- *Default*: /etc/puppet

### config

The configuration file for the current puppet application.

- *Default*: $confdir/${config_file_name}

### config_file_name

The name of the puppet config file.

- *Default*: puppet.conf

### config_version

How to determine the configuration version.  By default, it will be the
time that the configuration is parsed, but you can provide a shell script to override how the
version is determined.  The output of this script will be added to every log message in the
reports, allowing you to correlate changes on your hosts to the source version on the server.

Setting a global value for config_version in puppet.conf is deprecated. Please set a
per-environment value in environment.conf instead. For more info, see
http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/environments.html


### configprint

Print the value of a specific configuration setting.  If the name of a
setting is provided for this, then the value is printed and puppet
exits.  Comma-separate multiple values.  For a list of all values,
specify 'all'.


### configtimeout

How long the client should wait for the configuration to be retrieved
before considering it a failure.  This can help reduce flapping if too
many clients contact the server at one time. This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).

- *Default*: 2m

### couchdb_url

The url where the puppet couchdb database will be created.
Only used when `facts_terminus` is set to `couch`.

- *Default*: http://127.0.0.1:5984/puppet

### csr_attributes

An optional file containing custom attributes to add to certificate signing
requests (CSRs). You should ensure that this file does not exist on your CA
puppet master; if it does, unwanted certificate extensions may leak into
certificates created with the `puppet cert generate` command.

If present, this file must be a YAML hash containing a `custom_attributes` key
and/or an `extension_requests` key. The value of each key must be a hash, where
each key is a valid OID and each value is an object that can be cast to a string.

Custom attributes can be used by the CA when deciding whether to sign the
certificate, but are then discarded. Attribute OIDs can be any OID value except
the standard CSR attributes (i.e. attributes described in RFC 2985 section 5.4).
This is useful for embedding a pre-shared key for autosigning policy executables
(see the `autosign` setting), often by using the `1.2.840.113549.1.9.7`
("challenge password") OID.

Extension requests will be permanently embedded in the final certificate.
Extension OIDs must be in the "ppRegCertExt" (`1.3.6.1.4.1.34380.1.1`) or
"ppPrivCertExt" (`1.3.6.1.4.1.34380.1.2`) OID arcs. The ppRegCertExt arc is
reserved for four of the most common pieces of data to embed: `pp_uuid` (`.1`),
`pp_instance_id` (`.2`), `pp_image_name` (`.3`), and `pp_preshared_key` (`.4`)
--- in the YAML file, these can be referred to by their short descriptive names
instead of their full OID. The ppPrivCertExt arc is unregulated, and can be used
for site-specific extensions.

- *Default*: $confdir/csr_attributes.yaml

### csrdir

Where the CA stores certificate requests

- *Default*: $cadir/requests

### daemonize

Whether to send the process into the background.  This defaults
to true on POSIX systems, and to false on Windows (where Puppet
currently cannot daemonize).

- *Default*: true

### data_binding_terminus

Where to retrive information about data.

- *Default*: hiera

### dbadapter

The type of database to use. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.

- *Default*: sqlite3

### dbconnections

The number of database connections for networked
databases.  Will be ignored unless the value is a positive integer. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.


### dblocation

The sqlite database file. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.

- *Default*: $statedir/clientconfigs.sqlite3

### dbmigrate

Whether to automatically migrate the database. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.

- *Default*: false

### dbname

The name of the database to use. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.

- *Default*: puppet

### dbpassword

The database password for caching. Only
used when networked databases are used. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.

- *Default*: puppet

### dbport

The database password for caching. Only
used when networked databases are used. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.


### dbserver

The database server for caching. Only
used when networked databases are used.

- *Default*: localhost

### dbsocket

The database socket location. Only used when networked
databases are used.  Will be ignored if the value is an empty string. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.


### dbuser

The database user for caching. Only
used when networked databases are used. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.

- *Default*: puppet

### default_file_terminus

The default source for files if no server is given in a
uri, e.g. puppet:///file. The default of `rest` causes the file to be
retrieved using the `server` setting. When running `apply` the default
is `file_server`, causing requests to be filled locally.

- *Default*: rest

### default_schedules

Boolean; whether to generate the default schedule resources. Setting this to
false is useful for keeping external report processors clean of skipped schedule resources.

- *Default*: true

### deviceconfig

Path to the device config file for puppet device.

- *Default*: $confdir/device.conf

### devicedir

The root directory of devices' $vardir.

- *Default*: $vardir/devices

### diff

Which diff command to use when printing differences between files. This setting
has no default value on Windows, as standard `diff` is not available, but Puppet can use many
third-party diff tools.

- *Default*: diff

### diff_args

Which arguments to pass to the diff command when printing differences between
files. The command to use can be chosen with the `diff` setting.

- *Default*: -u

### digest_algorithm

Which digest algorithm to use for file resources and the filebucket.
Valid values are md5, sha256. Default is md5.

- *Default*: md5

### disable_warnings

A list of warning types to disable. Currently the only warning type that can be
disabled are deprecations, but more warning types may be added later.

- *Default*: []

### dns_alt_names

The comma-separated list of alternative DNS names to use for the local host.

When the node generates a CSR for itself, these are added to the request
as the desired `subjectAltName` in the certificate: additional DNS labels
that the certificate is also valid answering as.

This is generally required if you use a non-hostname `certname`, or if you
want to use `puppet kick` or `puppet resource -H` and the primary certname
does not match the DNS name you use to communicate with the host.

This is unnecessary for agents, unless you intend to use them as a server for
`puppet kick` or remote `puppet resource` management.

It is rarely necessary for servers; it is usually helpful only if you need to
have a pool of multiple load balanced masters, or for the same master to
respond on two physically separate networks under different names.


### document_all

Whether to document all resources when using `puppet doc` to
generate manifest documentation.

- *Default*: false

### dynamicfacts

(Deprecated) Facts that are dynamic; these facts will be ignored when deciding whether
changed facts should result in a recompile.  Multiple facts should be
comma-separated.

- *Default*: memorysize,memoryfree,swapsize,swapfree

### environment

The environment Puppet is running in.  For clients
(e.g., `puppet agent`) this determines the environment itself, which
is used to find modules and much more.  For servers (i.e., `puppet master`)
this provides the default environment for nodes we know nothing about.

- *Default*: production

### environment_timeout

The time to live for a cached environment.
This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).
This setting can also be set to `unlimited`, which causes the environment to be cached until the master is restarted.

- *Default*: 3m

### environmentpath

A search path for directory environments, as a list of directories
separated by the system path separator character. (The POSIX path separator
is ':', and the Windows path separator is ';'.)

This setting must have a value set to enable **directory environments.** The
recommended value is `$confdir/environments`. For more details, see
http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/environments.html


### evaltrace

Whether each resource should log when it is
being evaluated.  This allows you to interactively see exactly
what is being done.

- *Default*: false

### evaluator

Which evaluator to use when compiling Puppet manifests. Valid values
are `current` and `future` (the default).

**Note:** This setting is only used when `parser = future`. It allows
testers to turn off the `future` evaluator when doing detailed tests and
comparisons of the new compilation system.

Evaluation is the second stage of catalog compilation. After the parser
converts a manifest to a model of expressions, the evaluator processes
each expression. (For example, a resource declaration signals the
evaluator to add a resource to the catalog).

The `future` parser and evaluator are slated to become default in Puppet
4. Their purpose is to add new features and improve consistency
and reliability.

Available Since Puppet 3.5.

- *Default*: future

### external_nodes

An external command that can produce node information.  The command's output
must be a YAML dump of a hash, and that hash must have a `classes` key and/or
a `parameters` key, where `classes` is an array or hash and
`parameters` is a hash.  For unknown nodes, the command should
exit with a non-zero exit code.

This command makes it straightforward to store your node mapping
information in other data sources like databases.

- *Default*: none

### factpath

Where Puppet should look for facts.  Multiple directories should
be separated by the system path separator character. (The POSIX path
separator is ':', and the Windows path separator is ';'.)

- *Default*: $vardir/lib/facter:$vardir/facts

### facts_terminus

The node facts terminus.

- *Default*: facter

### fileserverconfig

Where the fileserver configuration is stored.

- *Default*: $confdir/fileserver.conf

### filetimeout

The minimum time to wait between checking for updates in
configuration files.  This timeout determines how quickly Puppet checks whether
a file (such as manifests or templates) has changed on disk. This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).

- *Default*: 15s

### freeze_main

Freezes the 'main' class, disallowing any code to be added to it.  This
essentially means that you can't have any code outside of a node,
class, or definition other than in the site manifest.

- *Default*: false

### genconfig

When true, causes Puppet applications to print an example config file
to stdout and exit. The example will include descriptions of each
setting, and the current (or default) value of each setting,
incorporating any settings overridden on the CLI (with the exception
of `genconfig` itself). This setting only makes sense when specified
on the command line as `--genconfig`.

- *Default*: false

### genmanifest

Whether to just print a manifest to stdout and exit.  Only makes
sense when specified on the command line as `--genmanifest`.  Takes into account arguments specified
on the CLI.

- *Default*: false

### graph

Whether to create dot graph files for the different
configuration graphs.  These dot files can be interpreted by tools
like OmniGraffle or dot (which is part of ImageMagick).

- *Default*: false

### graphdir

Where to store dot-outputted graphs.

- *Default*: $statedir/graphs

### group

The group puppet master should run as.

- *Default*: puppet

### hiera_config

The hiera configuration file. Puppet only reads this file on startup, so you must restart the puppet master every time you edit it.

- *Default*: $confdir/hiera.yaml

### hostcert

Where individual hosts store and look for their certificates.

- *Default*: $certdir/$certname.pem

### hostcrl

Where the host's certificate revocation list can be found.
This is distinct from the certificate authority's CRL.

- *Default*: $ssldir/crl.pem

### hostcsr

Where individual hosts store and look for their certificate requests.

- *Default*: $ssldir/csr_$certname.pem

### hostprivkey

Where individual hosts store and look for their private key.

- *Default*: $privatekeydir/$certname.pem

### hostpubkey

Where individual hosts store and look for their public key.

- *Default*: $publickeydir/$certname.pem

### http_compression

Allow http compression in REST communication with the master.
This setting might improve performance for agent -> master
communications over slow WANs. Your puppet master needs to support
compression (usually by activating some settings in a reverse-proxy in
front of the puppet master, which rules out webrick). It is harmless to
activate this settings if your master doesn't support compression, but
if it supports it, this setting might reduce performance on high-speed LANs.

- *Default*: false

### http_proxy_host

The HTTP proxy host to use for outgoing connections.  Note: You
may need to use a FQDN for the server hostname when using a proxy.

- *Default*: none

### http_proxy_port

The HTTP proxy port to use for outgoing connections

- *Default*: 3128

### httplog

Where the puppet agent web server logs.

- *Default*: $logdir/http.log

### ignorecache

Ignore cache and always recompile the configuration.  This is
useful for testing new configurations, where the local cache may in
fact be stale even if the timestamps are up to date - if the facts
change or if the server changes.

- *Default*: false

### ignoreimport

If true, allows the parser to continue without requiring
all files referenced with `import` statements to exist. This setting was primarily
designed for use with commit hooks for parse-checking.

- *Default*: false

### ignoremissingtypes

Skip searching for classes and definitions that were missing during a
prior compilation. The list of missing objects is maintained per-environment and
persists until the environment is cleared or the master is restarted.

- *Default*: false

### ignoreschedules

Boolean; whether puppet agent should ignore schedules.  This is useful
for initial puppet agent runs.

- *Default*: false

### immutable_node_data

When true, also prevents $trusted and $facts from being overridden in any scope

- *Default*: $trusted_node_data

### inventory_port

The port to communicate with the inventory_server.

- *Default*: $masterport

### inventory_server

The server to send facts to.

- *Default*: $server

### inventory_terminus

Should usually be the same as the facts terminus

- *Default*: $facts_terminus

### keylength

The bit length of keys.

- *Default*: 4096

### lastrunfile

Where puppet agent stores the last run report summary in yaml format.

- *Default*: $statedir/last_run_summary.yaml

### lastrunreport

Where puppet agent stores the last run report in yaml format.

- *Default*: $statedir/last_run_report.yaml

### ldapattrs

The LDAP attributes to include when querying LDAP for nodes.  All
returned attributes are set as variables in the top-level scope.
Multiple values should be comma-separated.  The value 'all' returns
all attributes.

- *Default*: all

### ldapbase

The search base for LDAP searches.  It's impossible to provide
a meaningful default here, although the LDAP libraries might
have one already set.  Generally, it should be the 'ou=Hosts'
branch under your main directory.


### ldapclassattrs

The LDAP attributes to use to define Puppet classes.  Values
should be comma-separated.

- *Default*: puppetclass

### ldapparentattr

The attribute to use to define the parent node.

- *Default*: parentnode

### ldappassword

The password to use to connect to LDAP.


### ldapport

The LDAP port.  Only used if `node_terminus` is set to `ldap`.

- *Default*: 389

### ldapserver

The LDAP server.  Only used if `node_terminus` is set to `ldap`.

- *Default*: ldap

### ldapssl

Whether SSL should be used when searching for nodes.
Defaults to false because SSL usually requires certificates
to be set up on the client side.

- *Default*: false

### ldapstackedattrs

The LDAP attributes that should be stacked to arrays by adding
the values in all hierarchy elements of the tree.  Values
should be comma-separated.

- *Default*: puppetvar

### ldapstring

The search string used to find an LDAP node.

- *Default*: (&(objectclass=puppetClient)(cn=%s))

### ldaptls

Whether TLS should be used when searching for nodes.
Defaults to false because TLS usually requires certificates
to be set up on the client side.

- *Default*: false

### ldapuser

The user to use to connect to LDAP.  Must be specified as a
full DN.


### legacy_query_parameter_serialization

The serialization format to use when sending file_metadata
query parameters.  Older versions of puppet master expect certain query
parameters to be serialized as yaml, which is deprecated.

This should almost always be false. It can be temporarily set to true
to let agents using this Puppet version connect to a puppet master
running Puppet 3.0.0 through 3.2.x.

Note that this is set to true automatically if the agent detects an
older master, so should never need to be set explicitly.

- *Default*: false

### libdir

An extra search path for Puppet.  This is only useful
for those files that Puppet will load on demand, and is only
guaranteed to work for those cases.  In fact, the autoload
mechanism is responsible for making sure this directory
is in Ruby's search path

- *Default*: $vardir/lib

### listen

Whether puppet agent should listen for
connections.  If this is true, then puppet agent will accept incoming
REST API requests, subject to the default ACLs and the ACLs set in
the `rest_authconfig` file. Puppet agent can respond usefully to
requests on the `run`, `facts`, `certificate`, and `resource` endpoints.

- *Default*: false

### localcacert

Where each client stores the CA certificate.

- *Default*: $certdir/ca.pem

### localconfig

Where puppet agent caches the local configuration.  An
extension indicating the cache format is added automatically.

- *Default*: $statedir/localconfig

### log_level

Default logging level

- *Default*: notice

### logdir

The directory in which to store log files

- *Default*:

### manage_internal_file_permissions

Whether Puppet should manage the owner, group, and mode of files it uses internally

- *Default*: true

### manifest

The entry-point manifest for puppet master. This can be one file
or a directory of manifests to be evaluated in alphabetical order. Puppet manages
this path as a directory if one exists or if the path ends with a / or \.

Setting a global value for `manifest` in puppet.conf is deprecated. Please use
directory environments instead. If you need to use something other than the
environment's `manifests` directory as the main manifest, you can set
`manifest` in environment.conf. For more info, see
http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/environments.html

- *Default*: $manifestdir/site.pp

### manifestdir

Used to build the default value of the `manifest` setting. Has no other purpose.

This setting is deprecated.

- *Default*: $confdir/manifests

### masterhttplog

Where the puppet master web server logs.

- *Default*: $logdir/masterhttp.log

### masterlog

Where puppet master logs.  This is generally not used,
since syslog is the default log destination.

- *Default*: $logdir/puppetmaster.log

### masterport

The port for puppet master traffic. For puppet master,
this is the port to listen on; for puppet agent, this is the port
to make requests on. Both applications use this setting to get the port.

- *Default*: 8140

### max_deprecations

Sets the max number of logged/displayed parser validation deprecation
warnings in case multiple errors have been detected. A value of 0 is the
same as value 1. The count is per manifest.

- *Default*: 10

### max_errors

Sets the max number of logged/displayed parser validation errors in case
multiple errors have been detected. A value of 0 is the same as value 1.
The count is per manifest.

- *Default*: 10

### max_warnings

Sets the max number of logged/displayed parser validation warnings in
case multiple errors have been detected. A value of 0 is the same as
value 1. The count is per manifest.

- *Default*: 10

### maximum_uid

The maximum allowed UID.  Some platforms use negative UIDs
but then ship with tools that do not know how to handle signed ints,
so the UIDs show up as huge numbers that can then not be fed back into
the system.  This is a hackish way to fail in a slightly more useful
way when that happens.

- *Default*: 4294967290

### mkusers

Whether to create the necessary user and group that puppet agent will run as.

- *Default*: false

### module_repository

The module repository

- *Default*: https://forgeapi.puppetlabs.com

### module_skeleton_dir

The directory which the skeleton for module tool generate is stored.

- *Default*: $module_working_dir/skeleton

### module_working_dir

The directory into which module tool data is stored

- *Default*: $vardir/puppet-module

### modulepath

The search path for modules, as a list of directories separated by the system
path separator character. (The POSIX path separator is ':', and the
Windows path separator is ';'.)

Setting a global value for `modulepath` in puppet.conf is deprecated. Please use
directory environments instead. If you need to use something other than the
default modulepath of `<ACTIVE ENVIRONMENT'S MODULES DIR>:$basemodulepath`,
you can set `modulepath` in environment.conf. For more info, see
http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/environments.html

- *Default*: $basemodulepath

### name

The name of the application, if we are running as one.  The
default is essentially $0 without the path or `.rb`.

- *Default*:

### node_cache_terminus

How to store cached nodes.
Valid values are (none), 'json', 'msgpack', 'yaml' or write only yaml ('write_only_yaml').
The master application defaults to 'write_only_yaml', all others to none.

- *Default*:

### node_name

How the puppet master determines the client's identity
and sets the 'hostname', 'fqdn' and 'domain' facts for use in the manifest,
in particular for determining which 'node' statement applies to the client.
Possible values are 'cert' (use the subject's CN in the client's
certificate) and 'facter' (use the hostname that the client
reported in its facts)

- *Default*: cert

### node_name_fact

The fact name used to determine the node name used for all requests the agent
makes to the master. WARNING: This setting is mutually exclusive with
node_name_value.  Changing this setting also requires changes to the default
auth.conf configuration on the Puppet Master.  Please see
http://links.puppetlabs.com/node_name_fact for more information.


### node_name_value

The explicit value used for the node name for all requests the agent
makes to the master. WARNING: This setting is mutually exclusive with
node_name_fact.  Changing this setting also requires changes to the default
auth.conf configuration on the Puppet Master.  Please see
http://links.puppetlabs.com/node_name_value for more information.

- *Default*: $certname

### node_terminus

Where to find information about nodes.

- *Default*: plain

### noop

Whether to apply catalogs in noop mode, which allows Puppet to
partially simulate a normal run. This setting affects puppet agent and
puppet apply.

When running in noop mode, Puppet will check whether each resource is in sync,
like it does when running normally. However, if a resource attribute is not in
the desired state (as declared in the catalog), Puppet will take no
action, and will instead report the changes it _would_ have made. These
simulated changes will appear in the report sent to the puppet master, or
be shown on the console if running puppet agent or puppet apply in the
foreground. The simulated changes will not send refresh events to any
subscribing or notified resources, although Puppet will log that a refresh
event _would_ have been sent.

**Important note:**
[The `noop` metaparameter](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/metaparameter.html#noop)
allows you to apply individual resources in noop mode, and will override
the global value of the `noop` setting. This means a resource with
`noop => false` _will_ be changed if necessary, even when running puppet
agent with `noop = true` or `--noop`. (Conversely, a resource with
`noop => true` will only be simulated, even when noop mode is globally disabled.)

- *Default*: false

### onetime

Perform one configuration run and exit, rather than spawning a long-running
daemon. This is useful for interactively running puppet agent, or
running puppet agent from cron.

- *Default*: false

### ordering

How unrelated resources should be ordered when applying a catalog.
Allowed values are `title-hash`, `manifest`, and `random`. This
setting affects puppet agent and puppet apply, but not puppet master.

* `title-hash` (the default) will order resources randomly, but will use
  the same order across runs and across nodes.
* `manifest` will use the order in which the resources were declared in
  their manifest files.
* `random` will order resources randomly and change their order with each
  run. This can work like a fuzzer for shaking out undeclared dependencies.

Regardless of this setting's value, Puppet will always obey explicit
dependencies set with the before/require/notify/subscribe metaparameters
and the `->`/`~>` chaining arrows; this setting only affects the relative
ordering of _unrelated_ resources.

- *Default*: title-hash

### parser

Selects the parser to use for parsing puppet manifests (in puppet DSL
language/'.pp' files). Available choices are `current` (the default)
and `future`.

The `current` parser means that the released version of the parser should
be used.

The `future` parser is a "time travel to the future" allowing early
exposure to new language features. What these features are will vary from
release to release and they may be invididually configurable.

Available Since Puppet 3.2.

- *Default*: current

### passfile

Where puppet agent stores the password for its private key.
Generally unused.

- *Default*: $privatedir/password

### path

The shell search path.  Defaults to whatever is inherited
from the parent process.

- *Default*: none

### pidfile

The file containing the PID of a running process.
This file is intended to be used by service management frameworks
and monitoring systems to determine if a puppet process is still in
the process table.

- *Default*: $rundir/${run_mode}.pid

### plugindest

Where Puppet should store plugins that it pulls down from the central
server.

- *Default*: $libdir

### pluginfactdest

Where Puppet should store external facts that are being handled by pluginsync

- *Default*: $vardir/facts.d

### pluginfactsource

Where to retrieve external facts for pluginsync

- *Default*: puppet://$server/pluginfacts

### pluginsignore

What files to ignore when pulling down plugins.

- *Default*: .svn CVS .git

### pluginsource

From where to retrieve plugins.  The standard Puppet `file` type
is used for retrieval, so anything that is a valid file source can
be used here.

- *Default*: puppet://$server/plugins

### pluginsync

Whether plugins should be synced with the central server.

- *Default*: true

### postrun_command

A command to run after every agent run.  If this command returns a non-zero
return code, the entire Puppet run will be considered to have failed, even though it might have
performed work during the normal run.


### preferred_serialization_format

The preferred means of serializing
ruby instances for passing over the wire.  This won't guarantee that all
instances will be serialized using this method, since not all classes
can be guaranteed to support this format, but it will be used for all
classes that support it.

- *Default*: pson

### prerun_command

A command to run before every agent run.  If this command returns a non-zero
return code, the entire Puppet run will fail.


### priority

The scheduling priority of the process.  Valid values are 'high',
'normal', 'low', or 'idle', which are mapped to platform-specific
values.  The priority can also be specified as an integer value and
will be passed as is, e.g. -5.  Puppet must be running as a privileged
user in order to increase scheduling priority.

- *Default*:

### privatedir

Where the client stores private certificate information.

- *Default*: $ssldir/private

### privatekeydir

The private key directory.

- *Default*: $ssldir/private_keys

### profile

Whether to enable experimental performance profiling

- *Default*: false

### publickeydir

The public key directory.

- *Default*: $ssldir/public_keys

### puppetdlog

The log file for puppet agent.  This is generally not used.

- *Default*: $logdir/puppetd.log

### puppetport

Which port puppet agent listens on.

- *Default*: 8139

### queue_source

Which type of queue to use for asynchronous processing.  If your stomp server requires
authentication, you can include it in the URI as long as your stomp client library is at least 1.1.1

- *Default*: stomp://localhost:61613/

### queue_type

Which type of queue to use for asynchronous processing.

- *Default*: stomp

### rails_loglevel

The log level for Rails connections.  The value must be
a valid log level within Rails.  Production environments normally use `info`
and other environments normally use `debug`. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.

- *Default*: info

### railslog

Where Rails-specific logs are sent. This setting is only used by the ActiveRecord storeconfigs and inventory backends, which are deprecated.

- *Default*: $logdir/rails.log

### report

Whether to send reports after every transaction.

- *Default*: true

### report_port

The port to communicate with the report_server.

- *Default*: $masterport

### report_serialization_format

The serialization format to use when sending reports to the
`report_server`. Possible values are `pson` and `yaml`. This setting
affects puppet agent, but not puppet apply (which processes its own
reports).

This should almost always be set to `pson`. It can be temporarily set to
`yaml` to let agents using this Puppet version connect to a puppet master
running Puppet 3.0.0 through 3.2.x.

Note that this is set to 'yaml' automatically if the agent detects an
older master, so should never need to be set explicitly.

- *Default*: pson

### report_server

The server to send transaction reports to.

- *Default*: $server

### reportdir

The directory in which to store reports. Each node gets
a separate subdirectory in this directory. This setting is only
used when the `store` report processor is enabled (see the
`reports` setting).

- *Default*: $vardir/reports

### reportfrom

The 'from' email address for the reports.

- *Default*: report@(the system's fully qualified domain name)

### reports

The list of report handlers to use. When using multiple report handlers,
their names should be comma-separated, with whitespace allowed. (For example,
`reports = http, tagmail`.)

This setting is relevant to puppet master and puppet apply. The puppet
master will call these report handlers with the reports it receives from
agent nodes, and puppet apply will call them with its own report. (In
all cases, the node applying the catalog must have `report = true`.)

See the report reference for information on the built-in report
handlers; custom report handlers can also be loaded from modules.
(Report handlers are loaded from the lib directory, at
`puppet/reports/NAME.rb`.)

- *Default*: store

### reporturl

The URL that reports should be forwarded to. This setting
is only used when the `http` report processor is enabled (see the
`reports` setting).

- *Default*: http://localhost:3000/reports/upload

### req_bits

The bit length of the certificates.

- *Default*: 4096

### requestdir

Where host certificate requests are stored.

- *Default*: $ssldir/certificate_requests

### resourcefile

The file in which puppet agent stores a list of the resources
associated with the retrieved configuration.

- *Default*: $statedir/resources.txt

### rest_authconfig

The configuration file that defines the rights to the different
rest indirections.  This can be used as a fine-grained
authorization system for `puppet master`.

- *Default*: $confdir/auth.conf

### route_file

The YAML file containing indirector route configuration.

- *Default*: $confdir/routes.yaml

### rrddir

The directory where RRD database files are stored.
Directories for each reporting host will be created under
this directory.

- *Default*: $vardir/rrd

### rrdinterval

How often RRD should expect data.
This should match how often the hosts report back to the server. This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).

- *Default*: $runinterval

### rundir

Where Puppet PID files are kept.

- *Default*:

### runinterval

How often puppet agent applies the catalog.
Note that a runinterval of 0 means "run continuously" rather than
"never run." If you want puppet agent to never run, you should start
it with the `--no-client` option. This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).

- *Default*: 30m

### sendmail

Where to find the sendmail binary with which to send email.

- *Default*: /usr/sbin/sendmail

### serial

Where the serial number for certificates is stored.

- *Default*: $cadir/serial

### server

The puppet master server to which the puppet agent should connect.

- *Default*: puppet

### server_datadir

The directory in which serialized data is stored, usually in a subdirectory.

- *Default*: $vardir/server_data

### show_diff

Whether to log and report a contextual diff when files are being replaced.
This causes partial file contents to pass through Puppet's normal
logging and reporting system, so this setting should be used with
caution if you are sending Puppet's reports to an insecure
destination. This feature currently requires the `diff/lcs` Ruby
library.

- *Default*: false

### signeddir

Where the CA stores signed certificates.

- *Default*: $cadir/signed

### smtphelo

The name by which we identify ourselves in SMTP HELO for reports.
If you send to a smtpserver which does strict HELO checking (as with Postfix's
`smtpd_helo_restrictions` access controls), you may need to ensure this resolves.

- *Default*: (the system's fully qualified domain name)

### smtpport

The TCP port through which to send email reports.

- *Default*: 25

### smtpserver

The server through which to send email reports.

- *Default*: none

### splay

Whether to sleep for a pseudo-random (but consistent) amount of time before
a run.

- *Default*: false

### splaylimit

The maximum time to delay before runs.  Defaults to being the same as the
run interval. This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).

- *Default*: $runinterval

### srv_domain

The domain which will be queried to find the SRV records of servers to use.

- *Default*: (the system's own domain)

### ssl_client_ca_auth

Certificate authorities who issue server certificates.  SSL servers will not be
considered authentic unless they possess a certificate issued by an authority
listed in this file.  If this setting has no value then the Puppet master's CA
certificate (localcacert) will be used.

- *Default*:

### ssl_client_header

The header containing an authenticated client's SSL DN.
This header must be set by the proxy to the authenticated client's SSL
DN (e.g., `/CN=puppet.puppetlabs.com`).  Puppet will parse out the Common
Name (CN) from the Distinguished Name (DN) and use the value of the CN
field for authorization.

Note that the name of the HTTP header gets munged by the web server
common gateway inteface: an `HTTP_` prefix is added, dashes are converted
to underscores, and all letters are uppercased.  Thus, to use the
`X-Client-DN` header, this setting should be `HTTP_X_CLIENT_DN`.

- *Default*: HTTP_X_CLIENT_DN

### ssl_client_verify_header

The header containing the status message of the client
verification. This header must be set by the proxy to 'SUCCESS' if the
client successfully authenticated, and anything else otherwise.

Note that the name of the HTTP header gets munged by the web server
common gateway inteface: an `HTTP_` prefix is added, dashes are converted
to underscores, and all letters are uppercased.  Thus, to use the
`X-Client-Verify` header, this setting should be
`HTTP_X_CLIENT_VERIFY`.

- *Default*: HTTP_X_CLIENT_VERIFY

### ssl_server_ca_auth

Certificate authorities who issue client certificates.  SSL clients will not be
considered authentic unless they possess a certificate issued by an authority
listed in this file.  If this setting has no value then the Puppet master's CA
certificate (localcacert) will be used.

- *Default*:

### ssldir

Where SSL certificates are kept.

- *Default*: $confdir/ssl

### statedir

The directory where Puppet state is stored.  Generally,
this directory can be removed without causing harm (although it
might result in spurious service restarts).

- *Default*: $vardir/state

### statefile

Where puppet agent and puppet master store state associated
with the running configuration.  In the case of puppet master,
this file reflects the state discovered through interacting
with clients.

- *Default*: $statedir/state.yaml

### storeconfigs

Whether to store each client's configuration, including catalogs, facts,
and related data.  This also enables the import and export of resources in
the Puppet language - a mechanism for exchange resources between nodes.

By default this uses ActiveRecord and an SQL database to store and query
the data; this, in turn, will depend on Rails being available.

You can adjust the backend using the storeconfigs_backend setting.

- *Default*: false

### storeconfigs_backend

Configure the backend terminus used for StoreConfigs.
By default, this uses the ActiveRecord store, which directly talks to the
database from within the Puppet Master process.

- *Default*: active_record

### strict_hostname_checking

Whether to only search for the complete
hostname as it is in the certificate when searching for node information
in the catalogs.

- *Default*: false

### strict_variables

Makes the parser raise errors when referencing unknown variables. (This does not affect
referencing variables that are explicitly set to undef).

- *Default*: false

### stringify_facts

Flatten fact values to strings using #to_s. Means you can't have arrays or
hashes as fact values.

- *Default*: true

### summarize

Whether to print a transaction summary.

- *Default*: false

### syslogfacility

What syslog facility to use when logging to syslog.
Syslog has a fixed list of valid facilities, and you must
choose one of those; you cannot just make one up.

- *Default*: daemon

### tagmap

The mapping between reporting tags and email addresses.

- *Default*: $confdir/tagmail.conf

### tags

Tags to use to find resources.  If this is set, then
only resources tagged with the specified tags will be applied.
Values must be comma-separated.


### templatedir

Where Puppet looks for template files.  Can be a list of colon-separated
directories.

This setting is deprecated. Please put your templates in modules instead.

- *Default*: $vardir/templates

### thin_storeconfigs

Boolean; whether Puppet should store only facts and exported resources in the storeconfigs
database. This will improve the performance of exported resources with the older
`active_record` backend, but will disable external tools that search the storeconfigs database.
Thinning catalogs is generally unnecessary when using PuppetDB to store catalogs.

- *Default*: false

### trace

Whether to print stack traces on some errors

- *Default*: false

### trusted_node_data

Stores trusted node data in a hash called $trusted.
When true also prevents $trusted from being overridden in any scope.

- *Default*: false

### use_cached_catalog

Whether to only use the cached catalog rather than compiling a new catalog
on every run.  Puppet can be run with this enabled by default and then selectively
disabled when a recompile is desired.

- *Default*: false

### use_srv_records

Whether the server will search for SRV records in DNS for the current domain.

- *Default*: false

### usecacheonfailure

Whether to use the cached configuration when the remote
configuration will not compile.  This option is useful for testing
new configurations, where you want to fix the broken configuration
rather than reverting to a known-good one.

- *Default*: true

### user

The user puppet master should run as.

- *Default*: puppet

### vardir

Where Puppet stores dynamic and growing data.  The default for this
setting is calculated specially, like `confdir`_.

- *Default*: /var/lib/puppet

### waitforcert

How frequently puppet agent should ask for a signed certificate.

When starting for the first time, puppet agent will submit a certificate
signing request (CSR) to the server named in the `ca_server` setting
(usually the puppet master); this may be autosigned, or may need to be
approved by a human, depending on the CA server's configuration.

Puppet agent cannot apply configurations until its approved certificate is
available. Since the certificate may or may not be available immediately,
puppet agent will repeatedly try to fetch it at this interval. You can
turn off waiting for certificates by specifying a time of 0, in which case
puppet agent will exit if it cannot get a cert.
This setting can be a time interval in seconds (30 or 30s), minutes (30m), hours (6h), days (2d), or years (5y).

- *Default*: 2m

### yamldir

The directory in which YAML data is stored, usually in a subdirectory.

- *Default*: $vardir/yaml

### zlib

Boolean; whether to use the zlib library

- *Default*: true



----------------

*This page autogenerated on 2014-06-12 11:06:27 -0700*
