---
layout: default
built_from_commit: e49293167c2a4753e3db51df5585478e3d8c8877
title: 'Man Page: puppet node'
canonical: /puppet/latest/reference/man/node.html
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-node</code> - <span class="man-whatis">View and manage node definitions.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet node <var>action</var> [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand interacts with node objects, which are used by Puppet to
build a catalog. A node object consists of the node's facts, environment,
node parameters (exposed in the parser as top-scope variables), and classes.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="http://docs.puppetlabs.com/references/stable/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">http://docs.puppetlabs.com/references/stable/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
<dt>--extra HASH</dt><dd>A terminus can take additional arguments to refine the operation, which
are passed as an arbitrary hash to the back-end.  Anything passed as
the extra value is just send direct to the back-end.</dd>
<dt>--terminus TERMINUS</dt><dd><p>Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of data
(with the familiar actions of <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>, and <code>destroy</code>)
from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In Puppet parlance,
these backends are called terminuses.</p>

<p>Almost all indirected subsystems have a <code>rest</code> terminus that interacts
with the puppet master's data. Most of them have additional terminuses
for various local data models, which are in turn used by the indirected
subsystem on the puppet master whenever it receives a remote request.</p>

<p>The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the "Notes" section of this
face's manpage for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>clean</code> - Clean up signed certs, cached facts, node objects, and reports for a node stored by the puppetmaster</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet node clean [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>host1</var> [<var>host2</var> ...]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Cleans up the following information a puppet master knows about a node:</p>

<p><var>Signed certificates</var> - ($vardir/ssl/ca/signed/node.domain.pem)</p>

<p><var>Cached facts</var> - ($vardir/yaml/facts/node.domain.yaml)</p>

<p><var>Cached node objects</var> - ($vardir/yaml/node/node.domain.yaml)</p>

<p><var>Reports</var> - ($vardir/reports/node.domain)</p></dd>
<dt><code>find</code> - Retrieve a node object.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet node find [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>host</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve a node object.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>A hash containing the node's <code>classes</code>, <code>environment</code>, <code>expiration</code>, <code>name</code>,
<code>parameters</code> (its facts, combined with any ENC-set parameters), and <code>time</code>.
When used from the Ruby API: a Puppet::Node object.</p>

<p>RENDERING ISSUES: Rendering as string and json are currently broken;
node objects can only be rendered as yaml.</p></dd>
<dt><code>info</code> - Print the default terminus class for this face.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet node info [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that different
run modes may have different default termini; when in doubt, specify the
run mode with the '--run_mode' option.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>find</code></p>

<p>Retrieve an "empty" (no classes, no ENC-imposed parameters, and an
environment of "production") node:</p>

<p>$ puppet node find somenode.puppetlabs.lan --terminus plain --render-as yaml</p>

<p>Retrieve a node using the puppet master's configured ENC:</p>

<p>$ puppet node find somenode.puppetlabs.lan --terminus exec --run_mode master --render-as yaml</p>

<p>Retrieve the same node from the puppet master:</p>

<p>$ puppet node find somenode.puppetlabs.lan --terminus rest --render-as yaml</p>

<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>,
and <code>destroy</code> actions for an indirected subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for
this face include:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>exec</code></li>
<li><code>ldap</code></li>
<li><code>memory</code></li>
<li><code>msgpack</code></li>
<li><code>plain</code></li>
<li><code>rest</code></li>
<li><code>store_configs</code></li>
<li><code>write_only_yaml</code></li>
<li><code>yaml</code></li>
</ul>


<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Labs
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
