---
layout: legacy
title: Best Practices
---

Best Practices
==============

This guide includes some tips to getting the most out of Puppet.  It is derived from the best practices section of the [Wiki](http://projects.puppetlabs.com/projects/puppet/wiki/) and other sources.  It is intended to cover high-level best practices and may not extend into lower level details.

* * *

Use Modules When Possible
-------------------------

[Puppet modules](/puppet/2.7/reference/modules_fundamentals.html) are something everyone should use.   If you have an application you are managing, add a module for it, so that you can keep the manifests, plugins (if any), source files, and templates together.

Keep Your Puppet Content In Version Control
-------------------------------------------

Keep your Puppet manifests in version control.  You can pick your favorite systems --- popular choices include git and svn.

Naming Conventions
------------------

Node names should match the hostnames of the nodes.

When naming classes, a class that disables ssh should be inherited from the ssh class and be named "ssh::disabled"

Style
-----

For recommendations on syntax and formatting, follow the [Style Guide](./style_guide.html)

Classes Vs Defined Types
------------------------

Classes are not to be thought of in the 'object oriented' meaning of a class.
This means a machine belongs to a particular class of machine.

For instance, a generic webserver would be a class. You would
include that class as part of any node that needed to be built as a
generic webserver. That class would drop in whatever packages, etc,
it needed to do.

Defined types on the other hand (created with 'define') can have
many instances on a machine, and can encapsulate classes
and other resources.    They can be created using user supplied
variables.  For instance, to manage iptables, a defined type
may wrap each rule in the iptables file, and the iptables configuration
could be built out of fragments generated by those defined types.

Usage of classes and defined types, in addition to the built-in managed
types, is very helpful towards having a managable Puppet infrastructure.

Work In Progress
----------------

This document is a stub.  You can help Puppet by submitting contributions to it.


