---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 4e0b2b9b2c68e41c386308d71d23d9b26fbfa154
title: 'Man Page: puppet certificate_request'
canonical: /puppet/latest/reference/man/certificate_request.html
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-certificate_request</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Manage certificate requests.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet certificate_request <var>action</var> [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand retrieves and submits certificate signing requests (CSRs).</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
<dt>--extra HASH</dt><dd>A terminus can take additional arguments to refine the operation, which
are passed as an arbitrary hash to the back-end.  Anything passed as
the extra value is just send direct to the back-end.</dd>
<dt>--terminus TERMINUS</dt><dd><p>Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of data
(with the familiar actions of <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>, and <code>destroy</code>)
from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In Puppet parlance,
these backends are called terminuses.</p>

<p>Almost all indirected subsystems have a <code>rest</code> terminus that interacts
with the puppet master's data. Most of them have additional terminuses
for various local data models, which are in turn used by the indirected
subsystem on the puppet master whenever it receives a remote request.</p>

<p>The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the "Notes" section of this
face's manpage for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>find</code> - Retrieve a single CSR.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet certificate_request find [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] [<var>host</var>]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve a single CSR.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>A single certificate request. When used from the Ruby API, returns a
Puppet::SSL::CertificateRequest object.</p>

<p>Defaults to the current nodes certname.</p></dd>
<dt><code>info</code> - Print the default terminus class for this face.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet certificate_request info [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that different
run modes may have different default termini; when in doubt, specify the
run mode with the '--run_mode' option.</p></dd>
<dt><code>save</code> - API only: submit a certificate signing request.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet certificate_request save [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>x509_CSR</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>API only: create or overwrite an object. As the Faces framework does not
currently accept data from STDIN, save actions cannot currently be invoked
from the command line.</p></dd>
<dt><code>search</code> - Retrieve all outstanding CSRs.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet certificate_request search [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>dummy_text</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve all outstanding CSRs.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>A list of certificate requests. When used from the Ruby API, returns an
array of Puppet::SSL::CertificateRequest objects.</p>

<p><code>NOTES</code></p>

<p>Although this action always returns all CSRs, it requires a dummy search
key; this is a known bug.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>find</code></p>

<p>Retrieve a single CSR from the puppet master's CA:</p>

<p>$ puppet certificate_request find somenode.puppetlabs.lan --terminus rest</p>

<p><code>search</code></p>

<p>Retrieve all CSRs from the local CA (similar to 'puppet cert list'):</p>

<p>$ puppet certificate_request search x --terminus ca</p>

<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>,
and <code>destroy</code> actions for an indirected subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for
this face include:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>ca</code></li>
<li><code>disabled_ca</code></li>
<li><code>file</code></li>
<li><code>memory</code></li>
<li><code>rest</code></li>
</ul>


<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Labs
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
