nagios\_serviceextinfo

The Nagios type serviceextinfo. This resource type is autogenerated
using the model developed in
[Naginator](http://projects.reductivelabs.com/projects/naginator),
and all of the Nagios types are generated using the same code and
the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in
Nagios-parseable configuration files. By default, the statements
will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_serviceextinfo.cfg`, but you
can send them to a different file by setting their `target`
attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but
*only* in the default file locations. This is an architectural
limitation.

### Parameters

#### \_naginator\_name

-   **namevar**

The name parameter for Nagios type serviceextinfo

#### action\_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

#### ensure

The basic property that the resource should be in. Valid values are
`present`, `absent`.

#### host\_name

Nagios configuration file parameter.

#### icon\_image

Nagios configuration file parameter.

#### icon\_image\_alt

Nagios configuration file parameter.

#### notes

Nagios configuration file parameter.

#### notes\_url

Nagios configuration file parameter.

#### provider

The specific backend for provider to use. You will seldom need to
specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the appropriate
provider for your platform. Available providers are:

-   **naginator**:

#### register

Nagios configuration file parameter.

#### service\_description

Nagios configuration file parameter.

#### target

target

#### use

Nagios configuration file parameter.


* * * * *

