nagios_command
==============

The Nagios type command.

* * *

Background
----------

This resource type is autogenerated using
the model developed in [Naginator](http://projects.reductivelabs.com/projects/naginator),
and all of the Nagios types are generated using the same code and
the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in
Nagios-parseable configuration files. By default, the statements
will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_command.cfg`, but you can send
them to a different file by setting their `target` attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but
*only* in the default file locations. This is an architectural
limitation.

Requirements
------------

No additional requirmements.

Platforms
---------

All platforms.

Version Compatibility
---------------------

`TODO`.

Parameters
----------

### `command_line`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `command_name`

The name parameter for Nagios type command

INFO: This is the `namevar` for this resource type.

### `ensure`

The basic property that the resource should be in. Valid values are
`present`, `absent`.

### `provider`

The specific backend for provider to use. You will seldom need to
specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the appropriate
provider for your platform. Available providers are:

#### `naginator`

Uses [Naginator](http://projects.reductivelabs.com/projects/naginator)

### `target`

The target

### `use`

Nagios configuration file parameter.
