nagios_hostescalation
=====================

The Nagios type hostescalation.

* * *

This resource type is autogenerated
using the model developed in
[Naginator](http://projects.reductivelabs.com/projects/naginator),
and all of the Nagios types are generated using the same code and
the same library.

This type generates Nagios configuration statements in
Nagios-parseable configuration files. By default, the statements
will be added to `/etc/nagios/nagios_hostescalation.cfg`, but you
can send them to a different file by setting their `target`
attribute.

You can purge Nagios resources using the `resources` type, but
*only* in the default file locations. This is an architectural
limitation.

Requirements
------------

No additional requirmements.

Platforms
---------

All platforms.

Version Compatibility
---------------------

`TODO`.

Parameters
----------

### `_naginator_name`

The name parameter for Nagios type hostescalation

INFO: This is the `namevar` for this resource type.

### `contact_groups`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `contacts`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `ensure`

The basic property that the resource should be in. Valid values are
`present`, `absent`.

### `escalation_options`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `escalation_period`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `first_notification`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `host_name`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `hostgroup_name`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `last_notification`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `notification_interval`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `provider`

The specific backend for provider to use. You will seldom need to
specify this -- Puppet will usually discover the appropriate
provider for your platform. Available providers are:

#### `naginator`

### `register`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

### `target`

target

### `use`

Nagios configuration file parameter.

