---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 4e0b2b9b2c68e41c386308d71d23d9b26fbfa154
title: 'Man Page: puppet cert'
canonical: /puppet/latest/reference/man/cert.html
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-cert</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Manage certificates and requests</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>Standalone certificate authority. Capable of generating certificates,
but mostly used for signing certificate requests from puppet clients.</p>

<h2 id="USAGE">USAGE</h2>

<p>puppet cert <var>action</var> [-h|--help] [-V|--version] [-d|--debug] [-v|--verbose]
  [--digest <var>digest</var>] [<var>host</var>]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>Because the puppet master service defaults to not signing client
certificate requests, this script is available for signing outstanding
requests. It can be used to list outstanding requests and then either
sign them individually or sign all of them.</p>

<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<p>Every action except 'list' and 'generate' requires a hostname to act on,
unless the '--all' option is set.</p>

<p>The most important actions for day-to-day use are 'list' and 'sign'.</p>

<dl>
<dt class="flush">clean</dt><dd><p>Revoke a host's certificate (if applicable) and remove all files
related to that host from puppet cert's storage. This is useful when
rebuilding hosts, since new certificate signing requests will only be
honored if puppet cert does not have a copy of a signed certificate
for that host. If '--all' is specified then all host certificates,
both signed and unsigned, will be removed.</p></dd>
<dt>fingerprint</dt><dd><p>Print the DIGEST (defaults to the signing algorithm) fingerprint of a
host's certificate.</p></dd>
<dt>generate</dt><dd><p>Generate a certificate for a named client. A certificate/keypair will
be generated for each client named on the command line.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">list</dt><dd><p>List outstanding certificate requests. If '--all' is specified, signed
certificates are also listed, prefixed by '+', and revoked or invalid
certificates are prefixed by '-' (the verification outcome is printed
in parenthesis). If '--human-readable' or '-H' is specified,
certificates are formatted in a way to improve human scan-ability. If
'--machine-readable' or '-m' is specified, output is formatted concisely
for consumption by a script.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">print</dt><dd><p>Print the full-text version of a host's certificate.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">revoke</dt><dd><p>Revoke the certificate of a client. The certificate can be specified either
by its serial number (given as a hexadecimal number prefixed by '0x') or by its
hostname. The certificate is revoked by adding it to the Certificate Revocation
List given by the 'cacrl' configuration option. Note that the puppet master
needs to be restarted after revoking certificates.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">sign</dt><dd><p>Sign an outstanding certificate request. If '--interactive' or '-i' is
supplied the user will be prompted to confirm that they are signing the
correct certificate (recommended). If '--assume-yes' or '-y' is supplied
the interactive prompt will assume the answer of 'yes'.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">verify</dt><dd><p>Verify the named certificate against the local CA certificate.</p></dd>
<dt>reinventory</dt><dd><p>Build an inventory of the issued certificates. This will destroy the current
inventory file specified by 'cert_inventory' and recreate it from the
certificates found in the 'certdir'. Ensure the puppet master is stopped
before running this action.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument. For example, 'ssldir' is a valid
setting, so you can specify '--ssldir <var>directory</var>' as an
argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet cert with
'--genconfig'.</p>

<dl>
<dt class="flush">--all</dt><dd><p>Operate on all items. Currently only makes sense with the 'sign',
'list', and 'fingerprint' actions.</p></dd>
<dt>--allow-dns-alt-names</dt><dd><p>Sign a certificate request even if it contains one or more alternate DNS
names. If this option isn't specified, 'puppet cert sign' will ignore any
requests that contain alternate names.</p>

<p>In general, ONLY certs intended for a Puppet master server should include
alternate DNS names, since Puppet agent relies on those names for identifying
its rightful server.</p>

<p>You can make Puppet agent request a certificate with alternate names by
setting 'dns_alt_names' in puppet.conf or specifying '--dns_alt_names' on the
command line. The output of 'puppet cert list' shows any requested alt names
for pending certificate requests.</p></dd>
<dt>--allow-authorization-extensions</dt><dd><p>Enable the signing of a request with authorization extensions. Such requests
are sensitive because they can be used to write access rules in Puppet Server.
Currently, this is the only means by which such requests can be signed.</p></dd>
<dt>--digest</dt><dd><p>Set the digest for fingerprinting (defaults to the digest used when
signing the cert). Valid values depends on your openssl and openssl ruby
extension version.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd><p>Enable full debugging.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--help</dt><dd><p>Print this help message</p></dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd><p>Enable verbosity.</p></dd>
<dt>--version</dt><dd><p>Print the puppet version number and exit.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLE">EXAMPLE</h2>

<pre><code>$ puppet cert list
culain.madstop.com
$ puppet cert sign culain.madstop.com
</code></pre>

<h2 id="AUTHOR">AUTHOR</h2>

<p>Luke Kanies</p>

<h2 id="COPYRIGHT">COPYRIGHT</h2>

<p>Copyright (c) 2011 Puppet Labs, LLC Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License</p>

</div>
