---
layout: default
built_from_commit: c0673af42427fbe0b22ff97c8e5fa3244715eeae
title: 'Man Page: puppet instrumentation_listener'
canonical: /puppet/latest/reference/man/instrumentation_listener.html
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-instrumentation_listener</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Manage instrumentation listeners. DEPRECATED.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet instrumentation_listener <var>action</var> [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand enables/disables or list instrumentation listeners.
(DEPRECATED) This subcommand will be removed in Puppet 4.0.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
<dt>--extra HASH</dt><dd>A terminus can take additional arguments to refine the operation, which
are passed as an arbitrary hash to the back-end.  Anything passed as
the extra value is just send direct to the back-end.</dd>
<dt>--terminus TERMINUS</dt><dd><p>Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of data
(with the familiar actions of <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>, and <code>destroy</code>)
from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In Puppet parlance,
these backends are called terminuses.</p>

<p>Almost all indirected subsystems have a <code>rest</code> terminus that interacts
with the puppet master's data. Most of them have additional terminuses
for various local data models, which are in turn used by the indirected
subsystem on the puppet master whenever it receives a remote request.</p>

<p>The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the "Notes" section of this
face's manpage for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>destroy</code> - Invalid for this subcommand.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet instrumentation_listener destroy [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>key</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Invalid for this subcommand.</p></dd>
<dt><code>disable</code> - Disable a given instrumentation listener.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet instrumentation_listener disable [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>listener</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Disable a given instrumentation listener. After being disabled the listener
will stop receiving instrumentation notifications from the probes.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>Nothing.</p></dd>
<dt><code>enable</code> - Enable a given instrumentation listener.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet instrumentation_listener enable [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>listener</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Enable a given instrumentation listener. After being enabled the listener
will start receiving instrumentation notifications from the probes if those
are enabled.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>Nothing.</p></dd>
<dt><code>find</code> - Retrieve a single listener.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet instrumentation_listener find [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>key</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve a single listener.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>The status of an instrumentation listener</p></dd>
<dt><code>info</code> - Print the default terminus class for this face.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet instrumentation_listener info [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that different
run modes may have different default termini; when in doubt, specify the
run mode with the '--run_mode' option.</p></dd>
<dt><code>save</code> - API only: modify an instrumentation listener status.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet instrumentation_listener save [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>listener</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>API only: create or overwrite an object. As the Faces framework does not
currently accept data from STDIN, save actions cannot currently be invoked
from the command line.</p></dd>
<dt><code>search</code> - Retrieve all instrumentation listeners statuses.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet instrumentation_listener search [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>dummy_text</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve all instrumentation listeners statuses.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>The statuses of all instrumentation listeners</p>

<p><code>NOTES</code></p>

<p>Although this action always returns all instrumentation listeners, it requires a dummy search
key; this is a known bug.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>disable</code></p>

<p>Disable the "performance" listener in the running master:</p>

<p>$ puppet instrumentation_listener disable performance --terminus rest</p>

<p><code>enable</code></p>

<p>Enable the "performance" listener in the running master:</p>

<p>$ puppet instrumentation_listener enable performance --terminus rest</p>

<p><code>find</code></p>

<p>Retrieve a given listener:</p>

<p>$ puppet instrumentation_listener find performance --terminus rest</p>

<p><code>search</code></p>

<p>Retrieve the state of the listeners running in the remote puppet master:</p>

<p>$ puppet instrumentation_listener search x --terminus rest</p>

<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>,
and <code>destroy</code> actions for an indirected subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for
this face include:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>local</code></li>
<li><code>rest</code></li>
</ul>


<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Labs
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
