---
layout: default
built_from_commit: c0673af42427fbe0b22ff97c8e5fa3244715eeae
title: 'Man Page: puppet queue'
canonical: /puppet/latest/reference/man/queue.html
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-queue</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Deprecated queuing daemon for asynchronous storeconfigs</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>Retrieves serialized storeconfigs records from a queue and processes
them in order. THIS FEATURE IS DEPRECATED; use PuppetDB instead.</p>

<h2 id="USAGE">USAGE</h2>

<p>puppet queue [-d|--debug] [--help] [-v|--verbose] [--version]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This application runs as a daemon and processes storeconfigs data,
retrieving the data from a stomp server message queue and writing it to
a database. It was once necessary as a workaround for the poor performance
of ActiveRecord-based storeconfigs, but has been supplanted by the PuppetDB
service, which gives better performance with less complexity.</p>

<p>For more information, see the PuppetDB documentation at
http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppetdb/latest</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument. For example, 'server' is a valid
setting, so you can specify '--server <var>servername</var>' as
an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet queue with
'--genconfig'.</p>

<dl>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd><p>Enable full debugging.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--help</dt><dd><p>Print this help message</p></dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd><p>Turn on verbose reporting.</p></dd>
<dt>--version</dt><dd><p>Print the puppet version number and exit.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLE">EXAMPLE</h2>

<pre><code>$ puppet queue
</code></pre>

<h2 id="AUTHOR">AUTHOR</h2>

<p>Luke Kanies</p>

<h2 id="COPYRIGHT">COPYRIGHT</h2>

<p>Copyright (c) 2011 Puppet Labs, LLC Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License</p>

</div>
