---
layout: default
built_from_commit: edcda126535bd31439280bcf21402a4a4f126f71
title: 'Man Page: puppet catalog'
canonical: "/puppet/latest/man/catalog.html"
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-catalog</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Compile, save, view, and convert catalogs.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet catalog <var>action</var> [--terminus _TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand deals with catalogs, which are compiled per-node artifacts
generated from a set of Puppet manifests. By default, it interacts with the
compiling subsystem and compiles a catalog using the default manifest and
<code>certname</code>, but you can change the source of the catalog with the
<code>--terminus</code> option. You can also choose to print any catalog in 'dot'
format (for easy graph viewing with OmniGraffle or Graphviz) with
'--render-as dot'.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
<dt>--extra HASH</dt><dd>A terminus can take additional arguments to refine the operation, which
are passed as an arbitrary hash to the back-end.  Anything passed as
the extra value is just send direct to the back-end.</dd>
<dt>--terminus _TERMINUS</dt><dd><p>Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of data
(with the familiar actions of <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>, and <code>destroy</code>)
from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In Puppet parlance,
these backends are called terminuses.</p>

<p>Almost all indirected subsystems have a <code>rest</code> terminus that interacts
with the puppet master's data. Most of them have additional terminuses
for various local data models, which are in turn used by the indirected
subsystem on the puppet master whenever it receives a remote request.</p>

<p>The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the "Notes" section of this
face's manpage for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>apply</code> - Find and apply a catalog.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet catalog apply [--terminus _TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Finds and applies a catalog. This action takes no arguments, but
the source of the catalog can be managed with the <code>--terminus</code> option.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>Nothing. When used from the Ruby API, returns a
Puppet::Transaction::Report object.</p></dd>
<dt><code>download</code> - Download this node's catalog from the puppet master server.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet catalog download [--terminus _TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieves a catalog from the puppet master and saves it to the local yaml
cache. This action always contacts the puppet master and will ignore
alternate termini.</p>

<p>The saved catalog can be used in any subsequent catalog action by specifying
'--terminus yaml' for that action.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>Nothing.</p>

<p><code>NOTES</code></p>

<p>When used from the Ruby API, this action has a side effect of leaving
Puppet::Resource::Catalog.indirection.terminus_class set to yaml. The
terminus must be explicitly re-set for subsequent catalog actions.</p></dd>
<dt><code>find</code> - Retrieve the catalog for a node.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet catalog find [--terminus _TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>certname</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve the catalog for a node.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>A serialized catalog. When used from the Ruby API, returns a
Puppet::Resource::Catalog object.</p></dd>
<dt><code>info</code> - Print the default terminus class for this face.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet catalog info [--terminus _TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that different
run modes may have different default termini; when in doubt, specify the
run mode with the '--run_mode' option.</p></dd>
<dt><code>save</code> - API only: create or overwrite an object.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet catalog save [--terminus _TERMINUS] [--extra HASH] <var>key</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>API only: create or overwrite an object. As the Faces framework does not
currently accept data from STDIN, save actions cannot currently be invoked
from the command line.</p></dd>
<dt><code>select</code> - Retrieve a catalog and filter it for resources of a given type.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet catalog select [--terminus _TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>host</var> <var>resource_type</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieves a catalog for the specified host, then searches it for all
resources of the requested type.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>A list of resource references ("Type[title]"). When used from the API,
returns an array of Puppet::Resource objects excised from a catalog.</p>

<p><code>NOTES</code></p>

<p>By default, this action will retrieve a catalog from Puppet's compiler
subsystem; you must call the action with <code>--terminus rest</code> if you wish
to retrieve a catalog from the puppet master.</p>

<p>FORMATTING ISSUES: This action cannot currently render useful yaml;
instead, it returns an entire catalog. Use json instead.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>apply</code></p>

<p>Apply the locally cached catalog:</p>

<p>$ puppet catalog apply --terminus yaml</p>

<p>Retrieve a catalog from the master and apply it, in one step:</p>

<p>$ puppet catalog apply --terminus rest</p>

<p>API example:</p>

<pre><code># ...
Puppet::Face[:catalog, '0.0.1'].download
# (Termini are singletons; catalog.download has a side effect of
# setting the catalog terminus to yaml)
report  = Puppet::Face[:catalog, '0.0.1'].apply
# ...
</code></pre>

<p><code>download</code></p>

<p>Retrieve and store a catalog:</p>

<p>$ puppet catalog download</p>

<p>API example:</p>

<pre><code>Puppet::Face[:plugin, '0.0.1'].download
Puppet::Face[:facts, '0.0.1'].upload
Puppet::Face[:catalog, '0.0.1'].download
# ...
</code></pre>

<p><code>select</code></p>

<p>Ask the puppet master for a list of managed file resources for a node:</p>

<p>$ puppet catalog select --terminus rest somenode.magpie.lan file</p>

<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>,
and <code>destroy</code> actions for an indirected subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for
this face include:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>compiler</code></li>
<li><code>json</code></li>
<li><code>msgpack</code></li>
<li><code>rest</code></li>
<li><code>store_configs</code></li>
<li><code>yaml</code></li>
</ul>


<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Inc.
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
