% Network Reference
% 
% 

**This page is autogenerated; any changes will get overwritten**
*(last generated on Tue Jul 20 15:10:28 +1000 2010)*

This is a list of all Puppet network interfaces. Each interface is
implemented in the form of a client and a handler; the handler is
loaded on the server, and the client knows how to call the
handler's methods appropriately.

Most handlers are meant to be started on the server, usually within
`puppet master`, and the clients are mostly started on the client,
usually within `puppet agent`.

You can find the server-side handler for each interface at
`puppet/network/handler/<name>.rb` and the client class at
`puppet/network/client/<name>.rb`.

# CA

Provides an interface for signing CSRs. Accepts a CSR and returns
the CA certificate and the signed certificate, or returns nil if
the cert is not signed.

Prefix
  ~ puppetca
Side
  ~ Server
Methods
  ~ getcert

# FileBucket

The interface to Puppet's FileBucket system. Can be used to store
files in and retrieve files from a filebucket.

Prefix
  ~ puppetbucket
Side
  ~ Server
Methods
  ~ addfile, getfile

# FileServer

The interface to Puppet's fileserving abilities.

Prefix
  ~ fileserver
Side
  ~ Server
Methods
  ~ describe, list, retrieve

# Master

Puppet's configuration interface. Used for all interactions related
to generating client configurations.

Prefix
  ~ puppetmaster
Side
  ~ Server
Methods
  ~ getconfig, freshness

# Report

Accepts a Puppet transaction report and processes it.

Prefix
  ~ puppetreports
Side
  ~ Server
Methods
  ~ report

# Runner

An interface for triggering client configuration runs.

Prefix
  ~ puppetrunner
Side
  ~ Client
Methods
  ~ run

# Status

A simple interface for testing Puppet connectivity.

Prefix
  ~ status
Side
  ~ Client
Methods
  ~ status


* * * * *

*This page autogenerated on Tue Jul 20 15:10:28 +1000 2010*



