---
layout: default
title: Learning — Variables, Conditionals, and Facts
---

Learning — Variables, Conditionals, and Facts
=============================================

You can write manifests and order resources; now, add logic and flexibility with conditional statements and variables. 

* * *

&larr; [Ordering](./ordering.html) --- [Index](./) --- [Modules (Part One)][next] &rarr;

* * * 

[next]: ./modules1.html
[customfacts]: /guides/custom_facts.html

Variables
---------

Variables! I'm going to bet you pretty much know this drill, so let's move a little faster:

* `$variables` always start with a dollar sign. You assign to variables with the `=` operator. 
* Variables can hold strings, numbers, special values (false, undef...), arrays, and hashes.
* You can use variables as the value for any resource attribute, or as the title of a resource. 
* You can also interpolate variables inside strings, if you use double-quotes. To distinguish a `${variable}` from the surrounding text, you should wrap its name in curly braces.
* Every variable has a short local name and a long fully-qualified name. Fully qualified variables look like `$scope::variable`. Top scope variables are the same, but their scope is nameless. (For example: `$::top_scope_variable`.)
* You can only assign the same variable **once** in a given scope.[^declarative]

[^declarative]: This has to do with the declarative nature of the Puppet language: the idea is that the order in which you read the file shouldn't matter, so changing a value halfway through is illegal, since it would make the results order-dependent. <br><br>In practice, this isn't the full story, because you can't currently read a variable from anywhere north of its assignment. We're working on that.

{% highlight ruby %}
    $longthing = "Imagine I have something really long in here. Like an SSH key, let's say."
    
    file {'authorized_keys':
      path    => '/root/.ssh/authorized_keys',
      content => $longthing,
    }
{% endhighlight %}

Pretty easy.

Facts
-----

And now, a teaspoon of magic. 

Before you even start writing your manifests, Puppet builds you a stash of pre-assigned variables. Check it out:

{% highlight ruby %}
    # hosts-simple.pp
    
    # Host type reference:
    # http://docs.puppetlabs.com/references/latest/type.html#host
    
    host {'self':
      ensure => present,
      name   => $::hostname,
      ip     => $::ipaddress,
    }
    
    file {'motd':
      ensure  => file,
      path    => '/etc/motd',
      mode    => 0644,
      content => "Welcome to ${::hostname},\n a ${::operatingsystem} island in the sea of ${::domain}.\n",
    }
{% endhighlight %}
    
    # puppet apply hosts-simple.pp
    
    notice: /Stage[main]//Host[puppet]/ensure: created
    notice: /Stage[main]//File[motd]/ensure: defined content as '{md5}d149026e4b6d747ddd3a8157a8c37679'
    
    # cat /etc/hosts
    # HEADER: This file was autogenerated at Mon Apr 25 14:39:11 -0700 2011
    # HEADER: by puppet.  While it can still be managed manually, it
    # HEADER: is definitely not recommended.
    # Do not remove the following line, or various programs
    # that require network functionality will fail.
    127.0.0.1	localhost.localdomain	localhost
    ::1	localhost6.localdomain6	localhost6
    172.16.158.137	puppet

Our manifests are starting to get versatile, with pretty much no real work on our part. 

### Hostname? IPaddress?

So where did those helpful variables come from? They're "facts." Puppet ships with a tool called Facter, which ferrets out your system information, normalizes it into a set of variables, and passes them off to Puppet. The compiler then has access to those facts when it's reading a manifest. 

There are a lot of different facts, and the easiest way to get a list of them is to simply run `facter` at your VM's command line. You'll get back a long list of key/value pairs separated by the familiar `=>` hash rocket. To use one of these facts in your manifests, just prepend a dollar sign to its name (along with a `::`, because being explicit about namespaces is a good habit).

Most kinds of system will have at least a few facts that aren't available on other kinds of system (e.g., try comparing Facter's output on your CentOS VM to what it does on an OS X machine), and it can get fuzzier if you're extending Facter with [custom facts](/guides/custom_facts.html), but there's a general core of facts that give you the same info everywhere. You'll get a feel for them pretty quickly, and can probably guess most of them just by reading the list of names.

Conditional Statements
----------------------

Puppet has a fairly complete complement of conditional syntaxes, and the info available in facts makes it really easy to code different behavior for different systems. 

### If

We'll start with your basic `if` statement. Same as it ever was: _**if** condition { block of code } **elsif** condition { block of code } **else** { block of code };_ the else and any number of elsif statements are optional.

{% highlight ruby %}
    if $is_virtual {
      service {'ntpd':
        ensure => stopped,
        enable => false,
      }
    }
    else {
      service { 'ntpd':
        name       => 'ntpd',
        ensure     => running,
        enable     => true,
        hasrestart => true,
        require => Package['ntp'],
      }
    }
{% endhighlight %}

The blocks of code for each condition can contain any Puppet code.

#### What is False?

You'll notice I used a bare fact as the condition above. The Puppet language's data types are kind of loose, and a lot of things tend to get represented internally as strings, so it's worth mentioning that the following values will be treated as false by an if statement:

* `undef`
* `''` (the empty string)
* `false`
* Any expression that evaluates to false.

In particular, be aware that 0 is true.

#### Conditions

[expression]: http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/language_guide.html#expressions

Conditions can get pretty sophisticated: you can use any valid [expression][] in an if statement. Usually, this is going to mean using one of the standard comparison operators (`==`, `!=`, `<`, `>`, `<=`, `>=`), the regex match operators (`=~` and `!~`), or the `in` operator (which tests whether the right operand contains the left one).

### Case

Also probably familiar: the case statement. (Or switch, or whatever your language of choice calls it.) 

{% highlight ruby %}
    case $operatingsystem {
      centos: { $apache = "httpd" }
      # Note that these matches are case-insensitive.
      redhat: { $apache = "httpd" }
      debian: { $apache = "apache2" }
      ubuntu: { $apache = "apache2" }
      default: { fail("Unrecognized operating system for webserver") }
      # "fail" is a function. We'll get to those later.
    }
    package {'apache':
      name   => $apache,
      ensure => latest,
    }
{% endhighlight %}

Instead of testing a condition up front, `case` matches a variable against a bunch of possible values. **`default` is a special value,** which does exactly what it sounds like. 

#### Case matching

Matches can be simple strings (like above), regular expressions, or comma-separated lists of either. 

String matching is case-insensitive, like the `==` comparison operator. Regular expressions are denoted with the slash-quoting used by Perl and Ruby; they're case-sensitive by default, but you can use the `(?i)` and `(?-i)` switches to turn case-insensitivity on and off inside the pattern. Regex matches also assign captured subpatterns to `$1`, `$2`, etc. inside the associated code block, with `$0` containing the whole matching string.

Here's a regex example:

{% highlight ruby %}
    case $ipaddress_eth0 {
      /^127[\d.]+$/: { 
        notify {'misconfig': 
          message => "Possible network misconfiguration: IP address of $0",
        } 
      }
    }
{% endhighlight %}

And here's the example from above, rewritten and more readable:

{% highlight ruby %}
    case $operatingsystem {
      centos, redhat: { $apache = "httpd" }
      debian, ubuntu: { $apache = "apache2" }
      default: { fail("Unrecognized operating system for webserver") }
    }
{% endhighlight %}

### Selectors

Selectors might be less familiar; they're kind of like the [ternary operator](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%3F:), and kind of like the case statement. 

Instead of choosing between a set of code blocks, selectors choose between a group of possible values. You can't use them on their own; instead, they're usually used to assign a variable. 

{% highlight ruby %}
    $apache = $operatingsystem ? {
      centos                => 'httpd',
      redhat                => 'httpd',
      /(?i)(ubuntu|debian)/ => "apache2-$1",
        # (Don't actually use that package name.)
      default               => undef,
    }
{% endhighlight %}

Careful of the syntax, there: it looks kind of like we're saying `$apache = $operatingsystem`, but we're not. The question mark flags `$operatingsystem` as the pivot of a selector, and the actual value that gets assigned is determined by which option `$operatingsystem` matches. Also note how the syntax differs from the case syntax: it uses hash rockets and line-end commas instead of colons and blocks, and you can't use lists of values in a match. (If you want to match against a list, you have to fake it with a regular expression.)

It can look a little awkward, but there are plenty of situations where it's the most concise way to get a value sorted out; if you're ever not comfortable with it, you can just use a case statement to assign the variable instead. 

Selectors can also be used directly as values for a resource attribute, but try not to do that, because it gets ugly fast. 

Exercises
---------

> **Exercise:** Use the $operatingsystem fact to write a manifest that installs a build environment on Debian-based ("debian" and "ubuntu") and Enterprise Linux-based ("centos," "redhat") machines. (Both types of system require the `gcc` package, but Debian-type systems also require `build-essential`.)

> **Exercise:** Write a manifest that installs and configures NTP for Debian-based and Enterprise Linux-based Linux systems. This will be a package/file/service pattern where you'll be shipping different config files ([Debian version](./files/ntp.conf.debian), [Red Hat version](./files/ntp.conf.el) --- remember the `file` type's "source" attribute) and using different service names (`ntp` and `ntpd`, respectively).
> 
> (Use a second manifest to disable the NTP service after you've gotten this example working; NTP can behave kind of uselessly in a virtual machine.) 

Next
----

Now that your manifests can adapt to different kinds of systems, it's time to start grouping resources and conditionals into meaningful units. Onward to [classes, defined resource types, and modules][next]!