---
layout: default
built_from_commit: d1069b760c7327b1552ad1cb4c2eab21083b6e50
title: 'Man Page: puppet script'
canonical: "/puppet/latest/man/script.html"
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-script</code> - <span class="man-whatis">Run a puppet manifests as a script without compiling a catalog</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>Runs a puppet language script without compiling a catalog.</p>

<h2 id="USAGE">USAGE</h2>

<p>puppet script [-h|--help] [-V|--version] [-d|--debug] [-v|--verbose]
  [-e|--execute]
  [-l|--logdest syslog|eventlog|<var>FILE</var>|console] [--noop]
  <var>file</var></p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This is a standalone puppet script runner tool; use it to run puppet code
without compiling a catalog.</p>

<p>When provided with a modulepath, via command line or config file, puppet
script can load functions, types, tasks and plans from modules.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument. For example, 'environment' is a
valid setting, so you can specify '--environment mytest'
as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/configuration.html for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
'--genconfig'.</p>

<dl>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd><p>Enable full debugging.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--help</dt><dd><p>Print this help message</p></dd>
<dt>--logdest</dt><dd><p>Where to send log messages. Choose between 'syslog' (the POSIX syslog
service), 'eventlog' (the Windows Event Log), 'console', or the path to a log
file. Defaults to 'console'.</p>

<p>A path ending with '.json' will receive structured output in JSON format. The
log file will not have an ending ']' automatically written to it due to the
appending nature of logging. It must be appended manually to make the content
valid JSON.</p></dd>
<dt class="flush">--noop</dt><dd><p>Use 'noop' mode where Puppet runs in a no-op or dry-run mode. This
is useful for seeing what changes Puppet will make without actually
executing the changes. Applies to tasks only.</p></dd>
<dt>--execute</dt><dd><p>Execute a specific piece of Puppet code</p></dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd><p>Print extra information.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLE">EXAMPLE</h2>

<pre><code>$ puppet script -l /tmp/manifest.log manifest.pp
$ puppet script --modulepath=/root/dev/modules -e 'notice("hello world")'
</code></pre>

<h2 id="AUTHOR">AUTHOR</h2>

<p>Henrik Lindberg</p>

<h2 id="COPYRIGHT">COPYRIGHT</h2>

<p>Copyright (c) 2017 Puppet Inc., LLC Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License</p>

</div>
