---
layout: default
built_from_commit: ca4d947a102453a17a819a94bd01bac97f83c7e6
title: 'Man Page: puppet resource_type'
canonical: "/puppet/latest/man/resource_type.html"
---

<div class='mp'>
<h2 id="NAME">NAME</h2>
<p class="man-name">
  <code>puppet-resource_type</code> - <span class="man-whatis">View classes, defined resource types, and nodes from all manifests.</span>
</p>

<h2 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h2>

<p>puppet resource_type <var>action</var> [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<h2 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h2>

<p>This subcommand reads information about the resource collections (classes,
nodes, and defined types) available in Puppet's site manifest and
modules.</p>

<p>It will eventually be extended to examine native resource types.</p>

<h2 id="OPTIONS">OPTIONS</h2>

<p>Note that any setting that's valid in the configuration
file is also a valid long argument, although it may or may not be
relevant to the present action. For example, <code>server</code> and <code>run_mode</code> are valid
settings, so you can specify <code>--server &lt;servername></code>, or
<code>--run_mode &lt;runmode></code> as an argument.</p>

<p>See the configuration file documentation at
<a href="https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html" data-bare-link="true">https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html</a> for the
full list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all
configuration options can also be generated by running puppet with
<code>--genconfig</code>.</p>

<dl>
<dt>--render-as FORMAT</dt><dd>The format in which to render output. The most common formats are <code>json</code>,
<code>s</code> (string), <code>yaml</code>, and <code>console</code>, but other options such as <code>dot</code> are
sometimes available.</dd>
<dt>--verbose</dt><dd>Whether to log verbosely.</dd>
<dt class="flush">--debug</dt><dd>Whether to log debug information.</dd>
<dt>--extra HASH</dt><dd>A terminus can take additional arguments to refine the operation, which
are passed as an arbitrary hash to the back-end.  Anything passed as
the extra value is just send direct to the back-end.</dd>
<dt>--terminus TERMINUS</dt><dd><p>Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of data
(with the familiar actions of <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>, and <code>destroy</code>)
from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In Puppet parlance,
these backends are called terminuses.</p>

<p>Almost all indirected subsystems have a <code>rest</code> terminus that interacts
with the puppet master's data. Most of them have additional terminuses
for various local data models, which are in turn used by the indirected
subsystem on the puppet master whenever it receives a remote request.</p>

<p>The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the "Notes" section of this
face's manpage for more details.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="ACTIONS">ACTIONS</h2>

<dl>
<dt><code>find</code> - Retrieve info about a resource collection.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet resource_type find [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>collection_name</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Retrieve info about a resource collection.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>A hash of info about the requested resource collection. When used from the
Ruby API: returns a Puppet::Resource::Type object.</p>

<p>RENDERING ISSUES: yaml and string output for this indirection are currently
unusable; use json instead.</p>

<p><code>NOTES</code></p>

<p>If two resource collections share the same name (e.g. you have both a node
and a class named "default"), <code>find</code> will only return one of them. This can
be worked around by using <code>search</code> instead.</p></dd>
<dt><code>info</code> - Print the default terminus class for this face.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet resource_type info [--terminus TERMINUS] [--extra HASH]</p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that different
run modes may have different default termini; when in doubt, specify the
run mode with the '--run_mode' option.</p></dd>
<dt><code>search</code> - Search for collections matching a regular expression.</dt><dd><p><code>SYNOPSIS</code></p>

<p>puppet resource_type search [--terminus TERMINUS]
[--extra HASH]
<var>regular_expression</var></p>

<p><code>DESCRIPTION</code></p>

<p>Search for collections matching a regular expression.</p>

<p><code>RETURNS</code></p>

<p>An array of hashes of resource collection info. When used from the Ruby API:
returns an array of Puppet::Resource::Type objects.</p>

<p>RENDERING ISSUES: yaml and string output for this indirection are currently
unusable; use json instead.</p></dd>
</dl>


<h2 id="EXAMPLES">EXAMPLES</h2>

<p><code>find</code></p>

<p>Retrieve info about a specific locally-defined class:</p>

<p>$ puppet resource_type find ntp::disabled</p>

<p>Retrieve info from the puppet master about a specific class:</p>

<p>$ puppet resource_type find ntp --terminus rest</p>

<p><code>search</code></p>

<p>Retrieve all classes, nodes, and defined types:</p>

<p>$ puppet resource_type search '.*'</p>

<p>Search for classes related to Nagios:</p>

<p>$ puppet resource_type search nagios</p>

<h2 id="NOTES">NOTES</h2>

<p>The <code>find</code> and <code>search</code> actions return similar hashes of resource collection
info. These hashes will include the following four keys:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>file</code> (a string)</li>
<li><code>name</code> (a string)</li>
<li><code>type</code> (<var>hostclass</var>, <var>definition</var>, or <var>node</var>)</li>
<li><code>line</code> (an integer)</li>
</ul>


<p>They may optionally include the following keys:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>parent</code>    (<var>name_of_resource_collection</var>)</li>
<li><code>arguments</code> (a hash of parameters and default values)</li>
<li><code>doc</code>       (a string)</li>
</ul>


<p>This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes <code>find</code>, <code>search</code>, <code>save</code>,
and <code>destroy</code> actions for an indirected subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for
this face include:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>parser</code></li>
<li><code>rest</code></li>
</ul>


<h2 id="COPYRIGHT-AND-LICENSE">COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE</h2>

<p>Copyright 2011 by Puppet Labs
Apache 2 license; see COPYING</p>

</div>
