---
layout: default
built_from_commit: 44f2fdad9d3a565123ceae69c267403981e0141a
title: Function Reference
toc: columns
canonical: /puppet/latest/function.html
---





**This page is autogenerated; any changes will get overwritten** *(last generated on 2016-07-07 12:39:40 -0500)*


There are two types of functions in Puppet: Statements and rvalues.
Statements stand on their own and do not return arguments; they are used for
performing stand-alone work like importing.  Rvalues return values and can
only be used in a statement requiring a value, such as an assignment or a case
statement.

Functions execute on the Puppet master.  They do not execute on the Puppet agent.
Hence they only have access to the commands and data available on the Puppet master
host.

Here are the functions available in Puppet:

alert
-----
Log a message on the server at level alert.

- *Type*: statement

assert_type
-----------
Returns the given value if it is of the given
[data type](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_data.html), or
otherwise either raises an error or executes an optional two-parameter
[lambda](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html).

The function takes two mandatory arguments, in this order:

1. The expected data type.
2. A value to compare against the expected data type.

**Example**: Using `assert_type`

``` puppet
$raw_username = 'Amy Berry'

# Assert that $raw_username is a non-empty string and assign it to $valid_username.
$valid_username = assert_type(String[1], $raw_username)

# $valid_username contains "Amy Berry".
# If $raw_username was an empty string or a different data type, the Puppet run would
# fail with an "Expected type does not match actual" error.
```

You can use an optional lambda to provide enhanced feedback. The lambda takes two
mandatory parameters, in this order:

1. The expected data type as described in the function's first argument.
2. The actual data type of the value.

**Example**: Using `assert_type` with a warning and default value

``` puppet
$raw_username = 'Amy Berry'

# Assert that $raw_username is a non-empty string and assign it to $valid_username.
# If it isn't, output a warning describing the problem and use a default value.
$valid_username = assert_type(String[1], $raw_username) |$expected, $actual| {
  warning( "The username should be '${expected}', not '${actual}'. Using 'anonymous'." )
  'anonymous'
}

# $valid_username contains "Amy Berry".
# If $raw_username was an empty string, the Puppet run would set $valid_username to
# "anonymous" and output a warning: "The username should be 'String[1, default]', not
# 'String[0, 0]'. Using 'anonymous'."
```

For more information about data types, see the
[documentation](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_data.html).

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

contain
-------
Contain one or more classes inside the current class. If any of
these classes are undeclared, they will be declared as if called with the
`include` function. Accepts a class name, an array of class names, or a
comma-separated list of class names.

A contained class will not be applied before the containing class is
begun, and will be finished before the containing class is finished.

You must use the class's full name;
relative names are not allowed. In addition to names in string form,
you may also directly use Class and Resource Type values that are produced by
evaluating resource and relationship expressions.

- Since 4.0.0 support for Class and Resource Type values, absolute names

- *Type*: statement

create_resources
----------------
Converts a hash into a set of resources and adds them to the catalog.

This function takes two mandatory arguments: a resource type, and a hash describing
a set of resources. The hash should be in the form `{title => {parameters} }`:

    # A hash of user resources:
    $myusers = {
      'nick' => { uid    => '1330',
                  gid    => allstaff,
                  groups => ['developers', 'operations', 'release'], },
      'dan'  => { uid    => '1308',
                  gid    => allstaff,
                  groups => ['developers', 'prosvc', 'release'], },
    }

    create_resources(user, $myusers)

A third, optional parameter may be given, also as a hash:

    $defaults = {
      'ensure'   => present,
      'provider' => 'ldap',
    }

    create_resources(user, $myusers, $defaults)

The values given on the third argument are added to the parameters of each resource
present in the set given on the second argument. If a parameter is present on both
the second and third arguments, the one on the second argument takes precedence.

This function can be used to create defined resources and classes, as well
as native resources.

Virtual and Exported resources may be created by prefixing the type name
with @ or @@ respectively.  For example, the $myusers hash may be exported
in the following manner:

    create_resources("@@user", $myusers)

The $myusers may be declared as virtual resources using:

    create_resources("@user", $myusers)

- *Type*: statement

crit
----
Log a message on the server at level crit.

- *Type*: statement

debug
-----
Log a message on the server at level debug.

- *Type*: statement

defined
-------
Determines whether a given class or resource type is defined and returns a Boolean
value. You can also use `defined` to determine whether a specific resource is defined,
or whether a variable has a value (including `undef`, as opposed to the variable never
being declared or assigned).

This function takes at least one string argument, which can be a class name, type name,
resource reference, or variable reference of the form `'$name'`.

The `defined` function checks both native and defined types, including types
provided by modules. Types and classes are matched by their names. The function matches
resource declarations by using resource references.

**Examples**: Different types of `defined` function matches

``` puppet
# Matching resource types
defined("file")
defined("customtype")

# Matching defines and classes
defined("foo")
defined("foo::bar")

# Matching variables
defined('$name')

# Matching declared resources
defined(File['/tmp/file'])
```

Puppet depends on the configuration's evaluation order when checking whether a resource
is declared.

**Example**: Importance of evaluation order when using `defined`

``` puppet
# Assign values to $is_defined_before and $is_defined_after using identical `defined`
# functions.

$is_defined_before = defined(File['/tmp/file'])

file { "/tmp/file":
  ensure => present,
}

$is_defined_after = defined(File['/tmp/file'])

# $is_defined_before returns false, but $is_defined_after returns true.
```

This order requirement only refers to evaluation order. The order of resources in the
configuration graph (e.g. with `before` or `require`) does not affect the `defined`
function's behavior.

> **Warning:** Avoid relying on the result of the `defined` function in modules, as you
> might not be able to guarantee the evaluation order well enough to produce consistent
> results. This can cause other code that relies on the function's result to behave
> inconsistently or fail.

If you pass more than one argument to `defined`, the function returns `true` if _any_
of the arguments are defined. You can also match resources by type, allowing you to
match conditions of different levels of specificity, such as whether a specific resource
is of a specific data type.

**Example**: Matching multiple resources and resources by different types with `defined`

``` puppet
file { "/tmp/file1":
  ensure => file,
}

$tmp_file = file { "/tmp/file2":
  ensure => file,
}

# Each of these statements return `true` ...
defined(File['/tmp/file1'])
defined(File['/tmp/file1'],File['/tmp/file2'])
defined(File['/tmp/file1'],File['/tmp/file2'],File['/tmp/file3'])
# ... but this returns `false`.
defined(File['/tmp/file3'])

# Each of these statements returns `true` ...
defined(Type[Resource['file','/tmp/file2']])
defined(Resource['file','/tmp/file2'])
defined(File['/tmp/file2'])
defined('$tmp_file')
# ... but each of these returns `false`.
defined(Type[Resource['exec','/tmp/file2']])
defined(Resource['exec','/tmp/file2'])
defined(File['/tmp/file3'])
defined('$tmp_file2')
```

- Since 2.7.0
- Since 3.6.0 variable reference and future parser types
- Since 3.8.1 type specific requests with future parser
- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

dig
---
Returns a value for a sequence of given keys/indexes into a structure.
This function is used to "dig into" a complex data structure by
using a sequence of keys / indexes to access a value from which
the next key/index is accessed recursively.

The first encountered `undef` value or key stops the "dig" and `undef` is returned.

An error is raised if an attempt is made to "dig" into
something other than an `undef` (which immediately returns `undef`), an `Array` or a `Hash`.

**Example:** Using `dig`

```puppet
$data = {a => { b => [{x => 10, y => 20}, {x => 100, y => 200}]}}
notice $data.dig(a, b, 1, x)
```

Would notice the value 100.

* Since 4.5.0

- *Type*: rvalue

digest
------
Returns a hash value from a provided string using the digest_algorithm setting from the Puppet config file.

- *Type*: rvalue

each
----
Runs a [lambda](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html)
repeatedly using each value in a data structure, then returns the values unchanged.

This function takes two mandatory arguments, in this order:

1. An array or hash the function will iterate over.
2. A lambda, which the function calls for each element in the first argument. It can
request one or two parameters.

**Example**: Using the `each` function

`$data.each |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }`

or

`each($data) |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }`

When the first argument (`$data` in the above example) is an array, Puppet passes each
value in turn to the lambda, then returns the original values.

**Example**: Using the `each` function with an array and a one-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the array $data, run a lambda that creates a resource for each item.
$data = ["routers", "servers", "workstations"]
$data.each |$item| {
 notify { $item:
   message => $item
 }
}
# Puppet creates one resource for each of the three items in $data. Each resource is
# named after the item's value and uses the item's value in a parameter.
```

When the first argument is a hash, Puppet passes each key and value pair to the lambda
as an array in the form `[key, value]` and returns the original hash.

**Example**: Using the `each` function with a hash and a one-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the hash $data, run a lambda using each item as a key-value array that creates a
# resource for each item.
$data = {"rtr" => "Router", "svr" => "Server", "wks" => "Workstation"}
$data.each |$items| {
 notify { $items[0]:
   message => $items[1]
 }
}
# Puppet creates one resource for each of the three items in $data, each named after the
# item's key and containing a parameter using the item's value.
```

When the first argument is an array and the lambda has two parameters, Puppet passes the
array's indexes (enumerated from 0) in the first parameter and its values in the second
parameter.

**Example**: Using the `each` function with an array and a two-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the array $data, run a lambda using each item's index and value that creates a
# resource for each item.
$data = ["routers", "servers", "workstations"]
$data.each |$index, $value| {
 notify { $value:
   message => $index
 }
}
# Puppet creates one resource for each of the three items in $data, each named after the
# item's value and containing a parameter using the item's index.
```

When the first argument is a hash, Puppet passes its keys to the first parameter and its
values to the second parameter.

**Example**: Using the `each` function with a hash and a two-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the hash $data, run a lambda using each item's key and value to create a resource
# for each item.
$data = {"rtr" => "Router", "svr" => "Server", "wks" => "Workstation"}
$data.each |$key, $value| {
 notify { $key:
   message => $value
 }
}
# Puppet creates one resource for each of the three items in $data, each named after the
# item's key and containing a parameter using the item's value.
```

For an example that demonstrates how to create multiple `file` resources using `each`,
see the Puppet
[iteration](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_iteration.html)
documentation.

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

emerg
-----
Log a message on the server at level emerg.

- *Type*: statement

epp
---
Evaluates an Embedded Puppet (EPP) template file and returns the rendered text
result as a String.

`epp('<MODULE NAME>/<TEMPLATE FILE>', <PARAMETER HASH>)`

The first argument to this function should be a `<MODULE NAME>/<TEMPLATE FILE>`
reference, which loads `<TEMPLATE FILE>` from `<MODULE NAME>`'s `templates`
directory. In most cases, the last argument is optional; if used, it should be a
[hash](/puppet/latest/lang_data_hash.html) that contains parameters to
pass to the template.

- See the [template](/puppet/latest/lang_template.html) documentation
for general template usage information.
- See the [EPP syntax](/puppet/latest/lang_template_epp.html)
documentation for examples of EPP.

For example, to call the apache module's `templates/vhost/_docroot.epp`
template and pass the `docroot` and `virtual_docroot` parameters, call the `epp`
function like this:

`epp('apache/templates/vhost/_docroot.epp', { 'docroot' => '/var/www/html',
'virtual_docroot' => '/var/www/example' })`

Puppet produces a syntax error if you pass more parameters than are declared in
the template's parameter tag. When passing parameters to a template that
contains a parameter tag, use the same names as the tag's declared parameters.

Parameters are required only if they are declared in the called template's
parameter tag without default values. Puppet produces an error if the `epp`
function fails to pass any required parameter.

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

err
---
Log a message on the server at level err.

- *Type*: statement

fail
----
Fail with a parse error.

- *Type*: statement

file
----
Loads a file from a module and returns its contents as a string.

The argument to this function should be a `<MODULE NAME>/<FILE>`
reference, which will load `<FILE>` from a module's `files`
directory. (For example, the reference `mysql/mysqltuner.pl` will load the
file `<MODULES DIRECTORY>/mysql/files/mysqltuner.pl`.)

This function can also accept:

* An absolute path, which can load a file from anywhere on disk.
* Multiple arguments, which will return the contents of the **first** file
found, skipping any files that don't exist.

- *Type*: rvalue

filter
------
Applies a [lambda](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html)
to every value in a data structure and returns an array or hash containing any elements
for which the lambda evaluates to `true`.

This function takes two mandatory arguments, in this order:

1. An array or hash the function will iterate over.
2. A lambda, which the function calls for each element in the first argument. It can
request one or two parameters.

**Example**: Using the `filter` function

`$filtered_data = $data.filter |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }`

or

`$filtered_data = filter($data) |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }`

When the first argument (`$data` in the above example) is an array, Puppet passes each
value in turn to the lambda and returns an array containing the results.

**Example**: Using the `filter` function with an array and a one-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the array $data, return an array containing the values that end with "berry"
$data = ["orange", "blueberry", "raspberry"]
$filtered_data = $data.filter |$items| { $items =~ /berry$/ }
# $filtered_data = [blueberry, raspberry]
```

When the first argument is a hash, Puppet passes each key and value pair to the lambda
as an array in the form `[key, value]` and returns a hash containing the results.

**Example**: Using the `filter` function with a hash and a one-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the hash $data, return a hash containing all values of keys that end with "berry"
$data = { "orange" => 0, "blueberry" => 1, "raspberry" => 2 }
$filtered_data = $data.filter |$items| { $items[0] =~ /berry$/ }
# $filtered_data = {blueberry => 1, raspberry => 2}

When the first argument is an array and the lambda has two parameters, Puppet passes the
array's indexes (enumerated from 0) in the first parameter and its values in the second
parameter.

**Example**: Using the `filter` function with an array and a two-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the array $data, return an array of all keys that both end with "berry" and have
# an even-numbered index
$data = ["orange", "blueberry", "raspberry"]
$filtered_data = $data.filter |$indexes, $values| { $indexes % 2 == 0 and $values =~ /berry$/ }
# $filtered_data = [raspberry]
```

When the first argument is a hash, Puppet passes its keys to the first parameter and its
values to the second parameter.

**Example**: Using the `filter` function with a hash and a two-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the hash $data, return a hash of all keys that both end with "berry" and have
# values less than or equal to 1
$data = { "orange" => 0, "blueberry" => 1, "raspberry" => 2 }
$filtered_data = $data.filter |$keys, $values| { $keys =~ /berry$/ and $values <= 1 }
# $filtered_data = {blueberry => 1}
```

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

fqdn_rand
---------
Usage: `fqdn_rand(MAX, [SEED])`. MAX is required and must be a positive
integer; SEED is optional and may be any number or string.

Generates a random Integer number greater than or equal to 0 and less than MAX,
combining the `$fqdn` fact and the value of SEED for repeatable randomness.
(That is, each node will get a different random number from this function, but
a given node's result will be the same every time unless its hostname changes.)

This function is usually used for spacing out runs of resource-intensive cron
tasks that run on many nodes, which could cause a thundering herd or degrade
other services if they all fire at once. Adding a SEED can be useful when you
have more than one such task and need several unrelated random numbers per
node. (For example, `fqdn_rand(30)`, `fqdn_rand(30, 'expensive job 1')`, and
`fqdn_rand(30, 'expensive job 2')` will produce totally different numbers.)

- *Type*: rvalue

generate
--------
Calls an external command on the Puppet master and returns
the results of the command.  Any arguments are passed to the external command as
arguments.  If the generator does not exit with return code of 0,
the generator is considered to have failed and a parse error is
thrown.  Generators can only have file separators, alphanumerics, dashes,
and periods in them.  This function will attempt to protect you from
malicious generator calls (e.g., those with '..' in them), but it can
never be entirely safe.  No subshell is used to execute
generators, so all shell metacharacters are passed directly to
the generator.

- *Type*: rvalue

hiera
-----
Performs a standard priority lookup of the hierarchy and returns the most specific value
for a given key. The returned value can be any type of data.

The function takes up to three arguments, in this order:

1. A string key that Hiera searches for in the hierarchy. **Required**.
2. An optional default value to return if Hiera doesn't find anything matching the key.
    * If this argument isn't provided and this function results in a lookup failure, Puppet
    fails with a compilation error.
3. The optional name of an arbitrary
[hierarchy level](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/hierarchy.html) to insert at the
top of the hierarchy. This lets you temporarily modify the hierarchy for a single lookup.
    * If Hiera doesn't find a matching key in the overriding hierarchy level, it continues
    searching the rest of the hierarchy.

The `hiera` function does **not** find all matches throughout a hierarchy, instead
returining the first specific value starting at the top of the hierarchy. To search
throughout a hierarchy, use the `hiera_array` or `hiera_hash` functions.

**Example**: Using `hiera`

``` yaml
# Assuming hiera.yaml
# :hierarchy:
#   - web01.example.com
#   - common

# Assuming web01.example.com.yaml:
# users:
#   - "Amy Barry"
#   - "Carrie Douglas"

# Assuming common.yaml:
users:
  admins:
    - "Edith Franklin"
    - "Ginny Hamilton"
  regular:
    - "Iris Jackson"
    - "Kelly Lambert"
```

``` puppet
# Assuming we are not web01.example.com:

$users = hiera('users', undef)

# $users contains {admins  => ["Edith Franklin", "Ginny Hamilton"],
#                  regular => ["Iris Jackson", "Kelly Lambert"]}
```

You can optionally generate the default value with a
[lambda](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html) that
takes one parameter.

**Example**: Using `hiera` with a lambda

``` puppet
# Assuming the same Hiera data as the previous example:

$users = hiera('users') | $key | { "Key '${key}' not found" }

# $users contains {admins  => ["Edith Franklin", "Ginny Hamilton"],
#                  regular => ["Iris Jackson", "Kelly Lambert"]}
# If hiera couldn't match its key, it would return the lambda result,
# "Key 'users' not found".
```

The returned value's data type depends on the types of the results. In the example
above, Hiera matches the 'users' key and returns it as a hash.

See
[the documentation](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/puppet.html#hiera-lookup-functions)
for more information about Hiera lookup functions.

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

hiera_array
-----------
Finds all matches of a key throughout the hierarchy and returns them as a single flattened
array of unique values. If any of the matched values are arrays, they're flattened and
included in the results. This is called an
[array merge lookup](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/lookup_types.html#array-merge).

The `hiera_array` function takes up to three arguments, in this order:

1. A string key that Hiera searches for in the hierarchy. **Required**.
2. An optional default value to return if Hiera doesn't find anything matching the key.
    * If this argument isn't provided and this function results in a lookup failure, Puppet
    fails with a compilation error.
3. The optional name of an arbitrary
[hierarchy level](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/hierarchy.html) to insert at the
top of the hierarchy. This lets you temporarily modify the hierarchy for a single lookup.
    * If Hiera doesn't find a matching key in the overriding hierarchy level, it continues
    searching the rest of the hierarchy.

**Example**: Using `hiera_array`

``` yaml
# Assuming hiera.yaml
# :hierarchy:
#   - web01.example.com
#   - common

# Assuming common.yaml:
# users:
#   - 'cdouglas = regular'
#   - 'efranklin = regular'

# Assuming web01.example.com.yaml:
# users: 'abarry = admin'
```

``` puppet
$allusers = hiera_array('users', undef)

# $allusers contains ["cdouglas = regular", "efranklin = regular", "abarry = admin"].
```

You can optionally generate the default value with a
[lambda](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html) that
takes one parameter.

**Example**: Using `hiera_array` with a lambda

``` puppet
# Assuming the same Hiera data as the previous example:

$allusers = hiera_array('users') | $key | { "Key '${key}' not found" }

# $allusers contains ["cdouglas = regular", "efranklin = regular", "abarry = admin"].
# If hiera_array couldn't match its key, it would return the lambda result,
# "Key 'users' not found".
```

`hiera_array` expects that all values returned will be strings or arrays. If any matched
value is a hash, Puppet raises a type mismatch error.

See
[the documentation](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/puppet.html#hiera-lookup-functions)
for more information about Hiera lookup functions.

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

hiera_hash
----------
Finds all matches of a key throughout the hierarchy and returns them in a merged hash.
If any of the matched hashes share keys, the final hash uses the value from the
highest priority match. This is called a
[hash merge lookup](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/lookup_types.html#hash-merge).

The merge strategy is determined by Hiera's
[`:merge_behavior`](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/configuring.html#mergebehavior)
setting.

The `hiera_hash` function takes up to three arguments, in this order:

1. A string key that Hiera searches for in the hierarchy. **Required**.
2. An optional default value to return if Hiera doesn't find anything matching the key.
    * If this argument isn't provided and this function results in a lookup failure, Puppet
    fails with a compilation error.
3. The optional name of an arbitrary
[hierarchy level](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/hierarchy.html) to insert at the
top of the hierarchy. This lets you temporarily modify the hierarchy for a single lookup.
    * If Hiera doesn't find a matching key in the overriding hierarchy level, it continues
    searching the rest of the hierarchy.

**Example**: Using `hiera_hash`

``` yaml
# Assuming hiera.yaml
# :hierarchy:
#   - web01.example.com
#   - common

# Assuming common.yaml:
# users:
#   regular:
#     'cdouglas': 'Carrie Douglas'

# Assuming web01.example.com.yaml:
# users:
#   administrators:
#     'aberry': 'Amy Berry'
```

``` puppet
# Assuming we are not web01.example.com:

$allusers = hiera_hash('users', undef)

# $allusers contains {regular => {"cdouglas" => "Carrie Douglas"},
#                     administrators => {"aberry" => "Amy Berry"}}
```

You can optionally generate the default value with a
[lambda](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html) that
takes one parameter.

**Example**: Using `hiera_hash` with a lambda

``` puppet
# Assuming the same Hiera data as the previous example:

$allusers = hiera_hash('users') | $key | { "Key '${key}' not found" }

# $allusers contains {regular => {"cdouglas" => "Carrie Douglas"},
#                     administrators => {"aberry" => "Amy Berry"}}
# If hiera_hash couldn't match its key, it would return the lambda result,
# "Key 'users' not found".
```

`hiera_hash` expects that all values returned will be hashes. If any of the values
found in the data sources are strings or arrays, Puppet raises a type mismatch error.

See
[the documentation](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/puppet.html#hiera-lookup-functions)
for more information about Hiera lookup functions.

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

hiera_include
-------------
Assigns classes to a node using an
[array merge lookup](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/lookup_types.html#array-merge)
that retrieves the value for a user-specified key from Hiera's data.

The `hiera_include` function requires:

- A string key name to use for classes.
- A call to this function (i.e. `hiera_include('classes')`) in your environment's
`sites.pp` manifest, outside of any node definitions and below any top-scope variables
that Hiera uses in lookups.
- `classes` keys in the appropriate Hiera data sources, with an array for each
`classes` key and each value of the array containing the name of a class.

The function takes up to three arguments, in this order:

1. A string key that Hiera searches for in the hierarchy. **Required**.
2. An optional default value to return if Hiera doesn't find anything matching the key.
    * If this argument isn't provided and this function results in a lookup failure, Puppet
    fails with a compilation error.
3. The optional name of an arbitrary
[hierarchy level](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/hierarchy.html) to insert at the
top of the hierarchy. This lets you temporarily modify the hierarchy for a single lookup.
    * If Hiera doesn't find a matching key in the overriding hierarchy level, it continues
    searching the rest of the hierarchy.

The function uses an
[array merge lookup](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/latest/lookup_types.html#array-merge)
to retrieve the `classes` array, so every node gets every class from the hierarchy.

**Example**: Using `hiera_include`

``` yaml
# Assuming hiera.yaml
# :hierarchy:
#   - web01.example.com
#   - common

# Assuming web01.example.com.yaml:
# classes:
#   - apache::mod::php

# Assuming common.yaml:
# classes:
#   - apache
```

``` puppet
# In site.pp, outside of any node definitions and below any top-scope variables:
hiera_include('classes', undef)

# Puppet assigns the apache and apache::mod::php classes to the web01.example.com node.
```

You can optionally generate the default value with a
[lambda](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html) that
takes one parameter.

**Example**: Using `hiera_include` with a lambda

``` puppet
# Assuming the same Hiera data as the previous example:

# In site.pp, outside of any node definitions and below any top-scope variables:
hiera_include('classes') | $key | {"Key '${key}' not found" }

# Puppet assigns the apache and apache::mod::php classes to the web01.example.com node.
# If hiera_include couldn't match its key, it would return the lambda result,
# "Key 'classes' not found".
```

See [the documentation](http://links.puppetlabs.com/hierainclude) for more information
and a more detailed example of how `hiera_include` uses array merge lookups to classify
nodes.

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: statement

include
-------
Declares one or more classes, causing the resources in them to be
evaluated and added to the catalog. Accepts a class name, an array of class
names, or a comma-separated list of class names.

The `include` function can be used multiple times on the same class and will
only declare a given class once. If a class declared with `include` has any
parameters, Puppet will automatically look up values for them in Hiera, using
`<class name>::<parameter name>` as the lookup key.

Contrast this behavior with resource-like class declarations
(`class {'name': parameter => 'value',}`), which must be used in only one place
per class and can directly set parameters. You should avoid using both `include`
and resource-like declarations with the same class.

The `include` function does not cause classes to be contained in the class
where they are declared. For that, see the `contain` function. It also
does not create a dependency relationship between the declared class and the
surrounding class; for that, see the `require` function.

You must use the class's full name;
relative names are not allowed. In addition to names in string form,
you may also directly use Class and Resource Type values that are produced by
the future parser's resource and relationship expressions.

- Since < 3.0.0
- Since 4.0.0 support for class and resource type values, absolute names

- *Type*: statement

info
----
Log a message on the server at level info.

- *Type*: statement

inline_epp
----------
Evaluates an Embedded Puppet (EPP) template string and returns the rendered
text result as a String.

`inline_epp('<EPP TEMPLATE STRING>', <PARAMETER HASH>)`

The first argument to this function should be a string containing an EPP
template. In most cases, the last argument is optional; if used, it should be a
[hash](/puppet/latest/lang_data_hash.html) that contains parameters to
pass to the template.

- See the [template](/puppet/latest/lang_template.html) documentation
for general template usage information.
- See the [EPP syntax](/puppet/latest/lang_template_epp.html)
documentation for examples of EPP.

For example, to evaluate an inline EPP template and pass it the `docroot` and
`virtual_docroot` parameters, call the `inline_epp` function like this:

`inline_epp('docroot: <%= $docroot %> Virtual docroot: <%= $virtual_docroot %>',
{ 'docroot' => '/var/www/html', 'virtual_docroot' => '/var/www/example' })`

Puppet produces a syntax error if you pass more parameters than are declared in
the template's parameter tag. When passing parameters to a template that
contains a parameter tag, use the same names as the tag's declared parameters.

Parameters are required only if they are declared in the called template's
parameter tag without default values. Puppet produces an error if the
`inline_epp` function fails to pass any required parameter.

An inline EPP template should be written as a single-quoted string or
[heredoc](/puppet/latest/lang_data_string.html#heredocs).
A double-quoted string is subject to expression interpolation before the string
is parsed as an EPP template.

For example, to evaluate an inline EPP template using a heredoc, call the
`inline_epp` function like this:

``` puppet
# Outputs 'Hello given argument planet!'
inline_epp(@(END), { x => 'given argument' })
<%- | $x, $y = planet | -%>
Hello <%= $x %> <%= $y %>!
END
```

- Since 3.5
- Requires [future parser](/puppet/3.8/experiments_future.html) in Puppet 3.5 to 3.8

- *Type*: rvalue

inline_template
---------------
Evaluate a template string and return its value.  See
[the templating docs](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_template.html) for
more information. Note that if multiple template strings are specified, their
output is all concatenated and returned as the output of the function.

- *Type*: rvalue

lest
----
Call a [lambda](https://docs.puppet.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html)
with the given argument unless the argument is undef. Return `undef` if argument is
`undef`, and otherwise the result of giving the argument to the lambda.

This is useful to process a sequence of operations where an intermediate
result may be `undef` (which makes the entire sequence `undef`).
The `then` function is especially useful with the function `dig` which
performs in a similar way "digging out" a value in a complex structure.

**Example:** Using `dig` and `then`

```puppet
$data = {a => { b => [{x => 10, y => 20}, {x => 100, y => 200}]}}
notice $data.dig(a, b, 1, x).then |$x| { $x * 2 }
```

Would notice the value 200

Contrast this with:

```puppet
$data = {a => { b => [{x => 10, y => 20}, {ex => 100, why => 200}]}}
notice $data.dig(a, b, 1, x).then |$x| { $x * 2 }
```

Which would notice `undef` since the last lookup of 'x' results in `undef` which
is returned (without calling the lambda given to the `then` function).

As a result there is no need for conditional logic or a temporary (non local)
variable as the result is now either the wanted value (`x`) multiplied
by 2 or `undef`.

Calls to `then` can be chained. In the next example, a structure is using an offset based on
using 1 as the index to the first element (instead of 0 which is used in the language).
We are not sure if user input actually contains an index at all, or if it is
outside the range of available names.args.

**Example:** Chaining calls to the `then` function

```puppet
# Names to choose from
$names = ['Ringo', 'Paul', 'George', 'John']

# Structure where 'beatle 2' is wanted (but where the number refers
# to 'Paul' because input comes from a source using 1 for the first
# element).

$data = ['singer', { beatle => 2 }]
$picked = assert_type(String,
  # the data we are interested in is the second in the array,
  # a hash, where we want the value of the key 'beatle'
  $data.dig(1, 'beatle')
    # and we want the index in $names before the given index
    .then |$x| { $names[$x-1] }
    # so we can construct a string with that beatle's name
    .then |$x| { "Picked Beatle '${x}'" }
)
```

Would notice "Picked Beatle 'Paul'", and would raise an error if the result
was not a String.

* Since 4.5.0

- *Type*: rvalue

lookup
------
Uses the Puppet lookup system to retrieve a value for a given key. By default,
this returns the first value found (and fails compilation if no values are
available), but you can configure it to merge multiple values into one, fail
gracefully, and more.

When looking up a key, Puppet will search up to three tiers of data, in the
following order:

1. Hiera.
2. The current environment's data provider.
3. The indicated module's data provider, if the key is of the form
   `<MODULE NAME>::<SOMETHING>`.

#### Arguments

You must provide the name of a key to look up, and can optionally provide other
arguments. You can combine these arguments in the following ways:

* `lookup( <NAME>, [<VALUE TYPE>], [<MERGE BEHAVIOR>], [<DEFAULT VALUE>] )`
* `lookup( [<NAME>], <OPTIONS HASH> )`
* `lookup( as above ) |$key| { # lambda returns a default value }`

Arguments in `[square brackets]` are optional.

The arguments accepted by `lookup` are as follows:

1. `<NAME>` (string or array) --- The name of the key to look up.
    * This can also be an array of keys. If Puppet doesn't find anything for the
    first key, it will try again with the subsequent ones, only resorting to a
    default value if none of them succeed.
2. `<VALUE TYPE>` (data type) --- A
[data type](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_data_type.html)
that must match the retrieved value; if not, the lookup (and catalog
compilation) will fail. Defaults to `Data` (accepts any normal value).
3. `<MERGE BEHAVIOR>` (string or hash; see **"Merge Behaviors"** below) ---
Whether (and how) to combine multiple values. If present, this overrides any
merge behavior specified in the data sources. Defaults to no value; Puppet will
use merge behavior from the data sources if present, and will otherwise do a
first-found lookup.
4. `<DEFAULT VALUE>` (any normal value) --- If present, `lookup` returns this
when it can't find a normal value. Default values are never merged with found
values. Like a normal value, the default must match the value type. Defaults to
no value; if Puppet can't find a normal value, the lookup (and compilation) will
fail.
5. `<OPTIONS HASH>` (hash) --- Alternate way to set the arguments above, plus
some less-common extra options. If you pass an options hash, you can't combine
it with any regular arguments (except `<NAME>`). An options hash can have the
following keys:
    * `'name'` --- Same as `<NAME>` (argument 1). You can pass this as an
    argument or in the hash, but not both.
    * `'value_type'` --- Same as `<VALUE TYPE>` (argument 2).
    * `'merge'` --- Same as `<MERGE BEHAVIOR>` (argument 3).
    * `'default_value'` --- Same as `<DEFAULT VALUE>` (argument 4).
    * `'default_values_hash'` (hash) --- A hash of lookup keys and default
    values. If Puppet can't find a normal value, it will check this hash for the
    requested key before giving up. You can combine this with `default_value` or
    a lambda, which will be used if the key isn't present in this hash. Defaults
    to an empty hash.
    * `'override'` (hash) --- A hash of lookup keys and override values. Puppet
    will check for the requested key in the overrides hash _first;_ if found, it
    returns that value as the _final_ value, ignoring merge behavior. Defaults
    to an empty hash.

Finally, `lookup` can take a lambda, which must accept a single parameter.
This is yet another way to set a default value for the lookup; if no results are
found, Puppet will pass the requested key to the lambda and use its result as
the default value.

#### Merge Behaviors

Puppet lookup uses a hierarchy of data sources, and a given key might have
values in multiple sources. By default, Puppet returns the first value it finds,
but it can also continue searching and merge all the values together.

> **Note:** Data sources can use the special `lookup_options` metadata key to
request a specific merge behavior for a key. The `lookup` function will use that
requested behavior unless you explicitly specify one.

The valid merge behaviors are:

* `'first'` --- Returns the first value found, with no merging. Puppet lookup's
default behavior.
* `'unique'` (called "array merge" in classic Hiera) --- Combines any number of
arrays and scalar values to return a merged, flattened array with all duplicate
values removed. The lookup will fail if any hash values are found.
* `'hash'` --- Combines the keys and values of any number of hashes to return a
merged hash. If the same key exists in multiple source hashes, Puppet will use
the value from the highest-priority data source; it won't recursively merge the
values.
* `'deep'` --- Combines the keys and values of any number of hashes to return a
merged hash. If the same key exists in multiple source hashes, Puppet will
recursively merge hash or array values (with duplicate values removed from
arrays). For conflicting scalar values, the highest-priority value will win.
* `{'strategy' => 'first|unique|hash'}` --- Same as the string versions of these
merge behaviors.
* `{'strategy' => 'deep', <DEEP OPTION> => <VALUE>, ...}` --- Same as `'deep'`,
but can adjust the merge with additional options. The available options are:
    * `'knockout_prefix'` (string or undef) --- A string prefix to indicate a
    value should be _removed_ from the final result. Defaults to `undef`, which
    disables this feature.
    * `'sort_merged_arrays'` (boolean) --- Whether to sort all arrays that are
    merged together. Defaults to `false`.
    * `'merge_hash_arrays'` (boolean) --- Whether to merge hashes within arrays.
    Defaults to `false`.

#### Examples

Look up a key and return the first value found:

    lookup('ntp::service_name')

Do a unique merge lookup of class names, then add all of those classes to the
catalog (like `hiera_include`):

    lookup('classes', Array[String], 'unique').include

Do a deep hash merge lookup of user data, but let higher priority sources
remove values by prefixing them with `--`:

    lookup( { 'name'  => 'users',
              'merge' => {
                'strategy'        => 'deep',
                'knockout_prefix' => '--',
              },
    })

- *Type*: rvalue

map
---
Applies a [lambda](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html)
to every value in a data structure and returns an array containing the results.

This function takes two mandatory arguments, in this order:

1. An array or hash the function will iterate over.
2. A lambda, which the function calls for each element in the first argument. It can
request one or two parameters.

**Example**: Using the `map` function

`$transformed_data = $data.map |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }`

or

`$transformed_data = map($data) |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }`

When the first argument (`$data` in the above example) is an array, Puppet passes each
value in turn to the lambda.

**Example**: Using the `map` function with an array and a one-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the array $data, return an array containing each value multiplied by 10
$data = [1,2,3]
$transformed_data = $data.map |$items| { $items * 10 }
# $transformed_data contains [10,20,30]
```

When the first argument is a hash, Puppet passes each key and value pair to the lambda
as an array in the form `[key, value]`.

**Example**: Using the `map` function with a hash and a one-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the hash $data, return an array containing the keys
$data = {'a'=>1,'b'=>2,'c'=>3}
$transformed_data = $data.map |$items| { $items[0] }
# $transformed_data contains ['a','b','c']
```

When the first argument is an array and the lambda has two parameters, Puppet passes the
array's indexes (enumerated from 0) in the first parameter and its values in the second
parameter.

**Example**: Using the `map` function with an array and a two-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the array $data, return an array containing the indexes
$data = [1,2,3]
$transformed_data = $data.map |$index,$value| { $index }
# $transformed_data contains [0,1,2]
```

When the first argument is a hash, Puppet passes its keys to the first parameter and its
values to the second parameter.

**Example**: Using the `map` function with a hash and a two-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# For the hash $data, return an array containing each value
$data = {'a'=>1,'b'=>2,'c'=>3}
$transformed_data = $data.map |$key,$value| { $value }
# $transformed_data contains [1,2,3]
```

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

match
-----
Matches a regular expression against a string and returns an array containing the match
and any matched capturing groups.

The first argument is a string or array of strings. The second argument is either a
regular expression, regular expression represented as a string, or Regex or Pattern
data type that the function matches against the first argument.

The returned array contains the entire match at index 0, and each captured group at
subsequent index values. If the value or expression being matched is an array, the
function returns an array with mapped match results.

If the function doesn't find a match, it returns 'undef'.

**Example**: Matching a regular expression in a string

``` puppet
$matches = "abc123".match(/[a-z]+[1-9]+/)
# $matches contains [abc123]
```

**Example**: Matching a regular expressions with grouping captures in a string

``` puppet
$matches = "abc123".match(/([a-z]+)([1-9]+)/)
# $matches contains [abc123, abc, 123]
```

**Example**: Matching a regular expression with grouping captures in an array of strings

``` puppet
$matches = ["abc123","def456"].match(/([a-z]+)([1-9]+)/)
# $matches contains [[abc123, abc, 123], [def456, def, 456]]
```

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: statement

md5
---
Returns a MD5 hash value from a provided string.

- *Type*: rvalue

new
---
Creates a new instance/object of a given data type.

This function makes it possible to create new instances of
concrete data types. If a block is given it is called with the
just created instance as an argument.

Calling this function is equivalent to directly
calling the data type:

**Example:** `new` and calling type directly are equivalent

```puppet
$a = Integer.new("42")
$b = Integer("42")
```

These would both convert the string `"42"` to the decimal value `42`.

**Example:** arguments by position or by name

```puppet
$a = Integer.new("42", 8)
$b = Integer({from => "42", radix => 8})
```

This would convert the octal (radix 8) number `"42"` in string form
to the decimal value `34`.

The new function supports two ways of giving the arguments:

* by name (using a hash with property to value mapping)
* by position (as regular arguments)

Note that it is not possible to create new instances of
some abstract data types (for example `Variant`). The data type `Optional[T]` is an
exception as it will create an instance of `T` or `undef` if the
value to convert is `undef`.

The arguments that can be given is determined by the data type.

> An assertion is always made that the produced value complies with the given type constraints.

**Example:** data type constraints are checked

```puppet
Integer[0].new("-100")
```

Would fail with an assertion error (since value is less than 0).

The following sections show the arguments and conversion rules
per data type built into the Puppet Type System.

Conversion to Optional[T] and NotUndef[T]
-----------------------------------------

Conversion to these data types is the same as a conversion to the type argument `T`.
In the case of `Optional[T]` it is accepted that the argument to convert may be `undef`.
It is however not acceptable to give other arguments (than `undef`) that cannot be
converted to `T`.

Conversion to Integer
---------------------

A new `Integer` can be created from `Integer`, `Float`, `Boolean`, and `String` values.
For conversion from `String` it is possible to specify the radix (base).

```puppet
type Radix = Variant[Default, Integer[2,2], Integer[8,8], Integer[10,10], Integer[16,16]]

function Integer.new(
  String $value,
  Radix $radix = 10
)

function Integer.new(
  Variant[Numeric, Boolean] $value
)
```

* When converting from `String` the default radix is 10.
* If radix is not specified an attempt is made to detect the radix from the start of the string:
  * `0b` or `0B` is taken as radix 2.
  * `0x` or `0X` is taken as radix 16.
  * `0` as radix 8.
  * All others are decimal.
* Conversion from `String` accepts an optional sign in the string.
* For hexadecimal (radix 16) conversion an optional leading "0x", or "0X" is accepted.
* For octal (radix 8) an optional leading "0" is accepted.
* For binary (radix 2) an optional leading "0b" or "0B" is accepted.
* When `radix` is set to `default`, the conversion is based on the leading.
  characters in the string. A leading "0" for radix 8, a leading "0x", or "0X" for
  radix 16, and leading "0b" or "0B" for binary.
* Conversion from `Boolean` results in 0 for `false` and 1 for `true`.
* Conversion from `Integer`, `Float`, and `Boolean` ignores the radix.
* `Float` value fractions are truncated (no rounding).

Examples - Converting to Integer:

```puppet
$a_number = Integer("0xFF", 16)  # results in 255
$a_number = Numeric("010")       # results in 8
$a_number = Numeric("010", 10)   # results in 10
$a_number = Integer(true)        # results in 1
```

Conversion to Float
-------------------

A new `Float` can be created from `Integer`, `Float`, `Boolean`, and `String` values.
For conversion from `String` both float and integer formats are supported.

```puppet
function Float.new(
  Variant[Numeric, Boolean, String] $value
)
```


* For an integer, the floating point fraction of `.0` is added to the value.
* A `Boolean` `true` is converted to 1.0, and a `false` to 0.0
* In `String` format, integer prefixes for hex and binary are understood (but not octal since
  floating point in string format may start with a '0').

Conversion to Numeric
---------------------

A new `Integer` or `Float` can be created from `Integer`, `Float`, `Boolean` and
`String` values.

```puppet
function Numeric.new(
  Variant[Numeric, Boolean, String] $value
)
```

* If the value has a decimal period, or if given in scientific notation
  (e/E), the result is a `Float`, otherwise the value is an `Integer`. The
  conversion from `String` always uses a radix based on the prefix of the string.
* Conversion from `Boolean` results in 0 for `false` and 1 for `true`.

Examples - Converting to Numeric

```puppet
$a_number = Numeric(true)    # results in 1
$a_number = Numeric("0xFF")  # results in 255
$a_number = Numeric("010")   # results in 8
$a_number = Numeric("3.14")  # results in 3.14 (a float)
```

Conversion to String
--------------------

Conversion to `String` is the most comprehensive conversion as there are many
use cases where a string representation is wanted. The defaults for the many options
have been chosen with care to be the most basic "value in textual form" representation.
The more advanced forms of formatting are intended to enable writing special purposes formatting
functions in the Puppet language.

A new string can be created from all other data types. The process is performed in
several steps - first the data type of the given value is inferred, then the resulting data type
is used to find the most significant format specified for that data type. And finally,
the found format is used to convert the given value.

The mapping from data type to format is referred to as the *format map*. This map
allows different formatting depending on type.

**Example:** Positive Integers in Hexadecimal prefixed with '0x', negative in Decimal

```puppet
$format_map = {
  Integer[default, 0] => "%d",
  Integer[1, default] => "%#x"
}
String("-1", $format_map)  # produces '-1'
String("10", $format_map)  # produces '0xa'
```

A format is specified on the form:

```
%[Flags][Width][.Precision]Format
```

`Width` is the number of characters into which the value should be fitted. This allocated space is
padded if value is shorter. By default it is space padded, and the flag `0` will cause padding with `0`
for numerical formats.

`Precision` is the number of fractional digits to show for floating point, and the maximum characters
included in a string format.

Note that all data type supports the formats `s` and `p` with the meaning "default string representation" and
"default programmatic string representation" (which for example means that a String is quoted in 'p' format).

### Signatures of String conversion

```puppet
type Format = Pattern[/^%([ +-#0[{<(|]*)([1-9][0-9]*)?(?:.([0-9]+))?([a-zA-Z])/]
type ContainerFormat = Struct[{
  format         => Optional[String],
  separator      => Optional[String],
  separator2     => Optional[String],
  string_formats => Hash[Type, Format]
  }]
type TypeMap = Hash[Type, Variant[Format, ContainerFormat]]
type Formats = Variant[Default, String[1], TypeMap]

function String.new(
  Any $value,
  Formats $string_formats
)
```

Where:

* `separator` is the string used to separate entries in an array, or hash (extra space should not be included at
  the end), defaults to `","`
* `separator2` is the separator between key and value in a hash entry (space padding should be included as
  wanted), defaults to `" => "`.
* `string_formats` is a data type to format map for values contained in arrays and hashes - defaults to `{Any => "%p"}`. Note that
  these nested formats are not applicable to data types that are containers; they are always formatted as per the top level
  format specification.

**Example:** Simple Conversion to String (using defaults)

```puppet
$str = String(10)      # produces '10'
$str = String([10])    # produces '["10"]'
```

**Example:** Simple Conversion to String specifying the format for the given value directly

```puppet
$str = String(10, "%#x")    # produces '0x10'
$str = String([10], "%(a")  # produces '("10")'
```

**Example:** Specifying type for values contained in an array

```puppet
$formats = {
  Array => {
    format => '%(a',
    string_formats => { Integer => '%#x' }
  }
}
$str = String([1,2,3], $formats) # produces '(0x1, 0x2, 0x3)'
```

The given formats are merged with the default formats, and matching of values to convert against format is based on
the specificity of the mapped type; for example, different formats can be used for short and long arrays.

### Integer to String

| Format  | Integer Formats
| ------  | ---------------
| d       | Decimal, negative values produces leading '-'.
| x X     | Hexadecimal in lower or upper case. Uses ..f/..F for negative values unless + is also used. A `#` adds prefix 0x/0X.
| o       | Octal. Uses ..0 for negative values unless `+` is also used. A `#` adds prefix 0.
| b B     | Binary with prefix 'b' or 'B'. Uses ..1/..1 for negative values unless `+` is also used.
| c       | Numeric value representing a Unicode value, result is a one unicode character string, quoted if alternative flag # is used
| s       | Same as d, or d in quotes if alternative flag # is used.
| p       | Same as d.
| eEfgGaA | Converts integer to float and formats using the floating point rules.

Defaults to `d`.

### Float to String

| Format  | Float formats
| ------  | -------------
| f       | Floating point in non exponential notation.
| e E     | Exponential notation with 'e' or 'E'.
| g G     | Conditional exponential with 'e' or 'E' if exponent < -4 or >= the precision.
| a A     | Hexadecimal exponential form, using 'x'/'X' as prefix and 'p'/'P' before exponent.
| s       | Converted to string using format p, then applying string formatting rule, alternate form # quotes result.
| p       | Same as f format with minimum significant number of fractional digits, prec has no effect.
| dxXobBc | Converts float to integer and formats using the integer rules.

Defaults to `p`.

### String to String

| Format | String
| ------ | ------
| s      | Unquoted string, verbatim output of control chars.
| p      | Programmatic representation - strings are quoted, interior quotes and control chars are escaped.
| C      | Each `::` name segment capitalized, quoted if alternative flag `#` is used.
| c      | Capitalized string, quoted if alternative flag `#` is used.
| d      | Downcased string, quoted if alternative flag `#` is used.
| u      | Upcased string, quoted if alternative flag `#` is used.
| t      | Trims leading and trailing whitespace from the string, quoted if alternative flag `#` is used.

Defaults to `s` at top level and `p` inside array or hash.

### Boolean to String

| Format    | Boolean Formats
| ----      | -------------------
| t T       | String 'true'/'false' or 'True'/'False', first char if alternate form is used (i.e. 't'/'f' or 'T'/'F').
| y Y       | String 'yes'/'no', 'Yes'/'No', 'y'/'n' or 'Y'/'N' if alternative flag `#` is used.
| dxXobB    | Numeric value 0/1 in accordance with the given format which must be valid integer format.
| eEfgGaA   | Numeric value 0.0/1.0 in accordance with the given float format and flags.
| s         | String 'true' / 'false'.
| p         | String 'true' / 'false'.

### Regexp to String

| Format    | Regexp Formats
| ----      | --------------
| s         | Delimiters `/ /`, alternate flag `#` replaces `/` delimiters with quotes.
| p         | Delimiters `/ /`.

### Undef to String

| Format    | Undef formats
| ------    | -------------
| s         | Empty string, or quoted empty string if alternative flag `#` is used.
| p         | String 'undef', or quoted '"undef"' if alternative flag `#` is used.
| n         | String 'nil', or 'null' if alternative flag `#` is used.
| dxXobB    | String 'NaN'.
| eEfgGaA   | String 'NaN'.
| v         | String 'n/a'.
| V         | String 'N/A'.
| u         | String 'undef', or 'undefined' if alternative `#` flag is used.

### Default value to String

| Format    | Default formats
| ------    | ---------------
| d D       | String 'default' or 'Default', alternative form `#` causes value to be quoted.
| s         | Same as d.
| p         | Same as d.

### Array & Tuple to String

| Format    | Array/Tuple Formats
| ------    | -------------
| a         | Formats with `[ ]` delimiters and `,`, alternate form `#` indents nested arrays/hashes.
| s         | Same as a.
| p         | Same as a.

See "Flags" `<[({|` for formatting of delimiters, and "Additional parameters for containers; Array and Hash" for
more information about options.

The alternate form flag `#` will cause indentation of nested array or hash containers. If width is also set
it is taken as the maximum allowed length of a sequence of elements (not including delimiters). If this max length
is exceeded, each element will be indented.

### Hash & Struct to String

| Format    | Hash/Struct Formats
| ------    | -------------
| h         | Formats with `{ }` delimiters, `,` element separator and ` => ` inner element separator unless overridden by flags.
| s         | Same as h.
| p         | Same as h.
| a         | Converts the hash to an array of [k,v] tuples and formats it using array rule(s).

See "Flags" `<[({|` for formatting of delimiters, and "Additional parameters for containers; Array and Hash" for
more information about options.

The alternate form flag `#` will format each hash key/value entry indented on a separate line.

### Type to String

| Format    | Array/Tuple Formats
| ------    | -------------
| s         | The same as `p`, quoted if alternative flag `#` is used.
| p         | Outputs the type in string form as specified by the Puppet Language.

### Flags

| Flag     | Effect
| ------   | ------
| (space)  | A space instead of `+` for numeric output (`-` is shown), for containers skips delimiters.
| #        | Alternate format; prefix 0x/0x, 0 (octal) and 0b/0B for binary, Floats force decimal '.'. For g/G keep trailing 0.
| +        | Show sign +/- depending on value's sign, changes x, X, o, b, B format to not use 2's complement form.
| -        | Left justify the value in the given width.
| 0        | Pad with 0 instead of space for widths larger than value.
| <[({|   | Defines an enclosing pair <> [] () {} or | | when used with a container type.

Conversion to Boolean
---

Accepts a single value as argument:

* Float 0.0 is `false`, all other float values are `true`
* Integer 0 is `false`, all other integer values are `true`
* Strings
  * `true` if 'true', 'yes', 'y' (case independent compare)
  * `false` if 'false', 'no', 'n' (case independent compare)
* Boolean is already boolean and is simply returned

Conversion to Array and Tuple
---

When given a single value as argument:

* A non empty `Hash` is converted to an array matching `Array[Tuple[Any,Any], 1]`.
* An empty `Hash` becomes an empty array.
* An `Array` is simply returned.
* An `Iterable[T]` is turned into an array of `T` instances.

When given a second Boolean argument:

* if `true`, a value that is not already an array is returned as a one element array.
* if `false`, (the default), converts the first argument as shown above.

**Example:** Ensuring value is an array

```puppet
$arr = Array($value, true)
```

Conversion to a `Tuple` works exactly as conversion to an `Array`, only that the constructed array is
asserted against the given tuple type.

Conversion to Hash and Struct
---

Accepts a single value as argument:

* An empty `Array` becomes an empty `Hash`
* An `Array` matching `Array[Tuple[Any,Any], 1]` is converted to a hash where each tuple describes a key/value entry
* An `Array` with an even number of entries is interpreted as `[key1, val1, key2, val2, ...]`
* An `Iterable` is turned into an `Array` and then converted to hash as per the array rules
* A `Hash` is simply returned

Conversion to a `Struct` works exactly as conversion to a `Hash`, only that the constructed hash is
asserted against the given struct type.

Creating a SemVer
---

A SemVer object represents a single [Semantic Version](http://semver.org/).
It can be created from a String, individual values for its parts, or a hash specifying the value per part.
See the specification at [semver.org](http://semver.org/) for the meaning of the SemVer's parts.

The signatures are:

```puppet
type PositiveInteger = Integer[0,default]
type SemVerQualifier = Pattern[/A(?<part>[0-9A-Za-z-]+)(?:.g<part>)*Z/]
type SemVerString = String[1]
type SemVerHash =Struct[{
  major                => PositiveInteger,
  minor                => PositiveInteger,
  patch                => PositiveInteger,
  Optional[prerelease] => SemVerQualifier,
  Optional[build]      => SemVerQualifier
}]

function SemVer.new(SemVerString $str)

function SemVer.new(
        PositiveInteger           $major
        PositiveInteger           $minor
        PositiveInteger           $patch
        Optional[SemVerQualifier] $prerelease = undef
        Optional[SemVerQualifier] $build = undef
        )

function SemVer.new(SemVerHash $hash_args)
```

**Examples:** SemVer and SemVerRange usage

```puppet
# As a type, SemVer can describe disjunct ranges which versions can be
# matched against - here the type is constructed with two
# SemVerRange objects.
#
$t = SemVer[
  SemVerRange('>=1.0.0 <2.0.0'),
  SemVerRange('>=3.0.0 <4.0.0')
]
notice(SemVer('1.2.3') =~ $t) # true
notice(SemVer('2.3.4') =~ $t) # false
notice(SemVer('3.4.5') =~ $t) # true
```

Creating a SemVerRange
---

A `SemVerRange` object represents a range of `SemVer`. It can be created from
a `String`, or from two `SemVer` instances, where either end can be given as
a literal `default` to indicate infinity. The string format of a `SemVerRange` is specified by
the [Semantic Version Range Grammar](https://github.com/npm/node-semver#ranges).

> Use of the comparator sets described in the grammar (joining with `||`) is not supported.

The signatures are:

```puppet
type SemVerRangeString = String[1]
type SemVerRangeHash = Struct[{
  min                   => Variant[default, SemVer],
  Optional[max]         => Variant[default, SemVer],
  Optional[exclude_max] => Boolean
}]

function SemVerRange.new(
  SemVerRangeString $semver_range_string
)

function SemVerRange.new(
  Variant[default,SemVer] $min
  Variant[default,SemVer] $max
  Optional[Boolean]       $exclude_max = undef
)

function SemVerRange.new(
  SemVerRangeHash $semver_range_hash
)
```

For examples of `SemVerRange` use see "Creating a SemVer"

* Since 4.5.0

- *Type*: rvalue

notice
------
Log a message on the server at level notice.

- *Type*: statement

realize
-------
Make a virtual object real.  This is useful
when you want to know the name of the virtual object and don't want to
bother with a full collection.  It is slightly faster than a collection,
and, of course, is a bit shorter.  You must pass the object using a
reference; e.g.: `realize User[luke]`.

- *Type*: statement

reduce
------
Applies a [lambda](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html)
to every value in a data structure from the first argument, carrying over the returned
value of each iteration, and returns the result of the lambda's final iteration. This
lets you create a new value or data structure by combining values from the first
argument's data structure.

This function takes two mandatory arguments, in this order:

1. An array or hash the function will iterate over.
2. A lambda, which the function calls for each element in the first argument. It takes
two mandatory parameters:
    1. A memo value that is overwritten after each iteration with the iteration's result.
    2. A second value that is overwritten after each iteration with the next value in the
    function's first argument.

**Example**: Using the `reduce` function

`$data.reduce |$memo, $value| { ... }`

or

`reduce($data) |$memo, $value| { ... }`

You can also pass an optional "start memo" value as an argument, such as `start` below:

`$data.reduce(start) |$memo, $value| { ... }`

or

`reduce($data, start) |$memo, $value| { ... }`

When the first argument (`$data` in the above example) is an array, Puppet passes each
of the data structure's values in turn to the lambda's parameters. When the first
argument is a hash, Puppet converts each of the hash's values to an array in the form
`[key, value]`.

If you pass a start memo value, Puppet executes the lambda with the provided memo value
and the data structure's first value. Otherwise, Puppet passes the structure's first two
values to the lambda.

Puppet calls the lambda for each of the data structure's remaining values. For each
call, it passes the result of the previous call as the first parameter ($memo in the
above examples) and the next value from the data structure as the second parameter
($value).

If the structure has one value, Puppet returns the value and does not call the lambda.

**Example**: Using the `reduce` function

``` puppet
# Reduce the array $data, returning the sum of all values in the array.
$data = [1, 2, 3]
$sum = $data.reduce |$memo, $value| { $memo + $value }
# $sum contains 6

# Reduce the array $data, returning the sum of a start memo value and all values in the
# array.
$data = [1, 2, 3]
$sum = $data.reduce(4) |$memo, $value| { $memo + $value }
# $sum contains 10

# Reduce the hash $data, returning the sum of all values and concatenated string of all
# keys.
$data = {a => 1, b => 2, c => 3}
$combine = $data.reduce |$memo, $value| {
  $string = "${memo[0]}${value[0]}"
  $number = $memo[1] + $value[1]
  [$string, $number]
}
# $combine contains [abc, 6]
```

**Example**: Using the `reduce` function with a start memo and two-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# Reduce the array $data, returning the sum of all values in the array and starting
# with $memo set to an arbitrary value instead of $data's first value.
$data = [1, 2, 3]
$sum = $data.reduce(4) |$memo, $value| { $memo + $value }
# At the start of the lambda's first iteration, $memo contains 4 and $value contains 1.
# After all iterations, $sum contains 10.

# Reduce the hash $data, returning the sum of all values and concatenated string of
# all keys, and starting with $memo set to an arbitrary array instead of $data's first
# key-value pair.
$data = {a => 1, b => 2, c => 3}
$combine = $data.reduce( [d, 4] ) |$memo, $value| {
  $string = "${memo[0]}${value[0]}"
  $number = $memo[1] + $value[1]
  [$string, $number]
}
# At the start of the lambda's first iteration, $memo contains [d, 4] and $value
# contains [a, 1].
# $combine contains [dabc, 10]
```

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

regsubst
--------

Perform regexp replacement on a string or array of strings.

* *Parameters* (in order):
    * _target_  The string or array of strings to operate on.  If an array, the replacement will be performed on each of the elements in the array, and the return value will be an array.
    * _regexp_  The regular expression matching the target string.  If you want it anchored at the start and or end of the string, you must do that with ^ and $ yourself.
    * _replacement_  Replacement string. Can contain backreferences to what was matched using \0 (whole match), \1 (first set of parentheses), and so on.
    * _flags_  Optional. String of single letter flags for how the regexp is interpreted:
        - *E*         Extended regexps
        - *I*         Ignore case in regexps
        - *M*         Multiline regexps
        - *G*         Global replacement; all occurrences of the regexp in each target string will be replaced.  Without this, only the first occurrence will be replaced.
    * _encoding_  Optional.  How to handle multibyte characters.  A single-character string with the following values:
        - *N*         None
        - *E*         EUC
        - *S*         SJIS
        - *U*         UTF-8

* *Examples*

Get the third octet from the node's IP address:

    $i3 = regsubst($ipaddress,'^(\d+)\.(\d+)\.(\d+)\.(\d+)$','\3')

Put angle brackets around each octet in the node's IP address:

    $x = regsubst($ipaddress, '([0-9]+)', '<\1>', 'G')

- *Type*: rvalue

require
-------
Evaluate one or more classes,  adding the required class as a dependency.

The relationship metaparameters work well for specifying relationships
between individual resources, but they can be clumsy for specifying
relationships between classes.  This function is a superset of the
'include' function, adding a class relationship so that the requiring
class depends on the required class.

Warning: using require in place of include can lead to unwanted dependency cycles.

For instance the following manifest, with 'require' instead of 'include' would produce a nasty dependence cycle, because notify imposes a before between File[/foo] and Service[foo]:

    class myservice {
      service { foo: ensure => running }
    }

    class otherstuff {
      include myservice
      file { '/foo': notify => Service[foo] }
    }

Note that this function only works with clients 0.25 and later, and it will
fail if used with earlier clients.

You must use the class's full name;
relative names are not allowed. In addition to names in string form,
you may also directly use Class and Resource Type values that are produced when evaluating
resource and relationship expressions.

- Since 4.0.0 Class and Resource types, absolute names

- *Type*: statement

reverse_each
------------
Reverses the order of the elements of something that is iterable and optionally runs a
[lambda](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html) for each
element.

This function takes one to two arguments:

1. An `Iterable` that the function will iterate over.
2. An optional lambda, which the function calls for each element in the first argument. It must
   request one parameter.

**Example:** Using the `reverse_each` function

```puppet
$data.reverse_each |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }
```

or

```puppet
$reverse_data = $data.reverse_each
```

or

```puppet
reverse_each($data) |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }
```

or

```puppet
$reverse_data = reverse_each($data)
```

When no second argument is present, Puppet returns an `Iterable` that represents the reverse
order of its first argument. This allows methods on `Iterable` to be chained.

When a lamdba is given as the second argument, Puppet iterates the first argument in reverse
order and passes each value in turn to the lambda, then returns `undef`.

**Example:** Using the `reverse_each` function with an array and a one-parameter lambda

``` puppet
# Puppet will log a notice for each of the three items
# in $data in reverse order.
$data = [1,2,3]
$data.reverse_each |$item| { notice($item) }
```

When no second argument is present, Puppet returns a new `Iterable` which allows it to
be directly chained into another function that takes an `Iterable` as an argument.

**Example:** Using the `reverse_each` function chained with a `map` function.

```puppet
# For the array $data, return an array containing each
# value multiplied by 10 in reverse order
$data = [1,2,3]
$transformed_data = $data.reverse_each.map |$item| { $item * 10 }
# $transformed_data is set to [30,20,10]
```

**Example:** Using `reverse_each` function chained with a `map` in alternative syntax

```puppet
# For the array $data, return an array containing each
# value multiplied by 10 in reverse order
$data = [1,2,3]
$transformed_data = map(reverse_each($data)) |$item| { $item * 10 }
# $transformed_data is set to [30,20,10]
```

* Since 4.4.0

- *Type*: rvalue

scanf
-----
Scans a string and returns an array of one or more converted values based on the given format string.
See the documenation of Ruby's String#scanf method for details about the supported formats (which
are similar but not identical to the formats used in Puppet's `sprintf` function.)

This function takes two mandatory arguments: the first is the string to convert, and the second is
the format string. The result of the scan is an array, with each sucessfully scanned and transformed value.
The scanning stops if a scan is unsuccesful, and the scanned result up to that point is returned. If there
was no succesful scan, the result is an empty array.

   "42".scanf("%i")

You can also optionally pass a lambda to scanf, to do additional validation or processing.

    "42".scanf("%i") |$x| {
      unless $x[0] =~ Integer {
        fail "Expected a well formed integer value, got '$x[0]'"
      }
      $x[0]
    }
- since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

sha1
----
Returns a SHA1 hash value from a provided string.

- *Type*: rvalue

shellquote
----------
Quote and concatenate arguments for use in Bourne shell.

Each argument is quoted separately, and then all are concatenated
with spaces.  If an argument is an array, the elements of that
array is interpolated within the rest of the arguments; this makes
it possible to have an array of arguments and pass that array to
shellquote instead of having to specify each argument
individually in the call.

- *Type*: rvalue

slice
-----
This function takes two mandatory arguments: the first should be an array or hash, and the second specifies
the number of elements to include in each slice.

When the first argument is a hash, each key value pair is counted as one. For example, a slice size of 2 will produce
an array of two arrays with key, and value.

    $a.slice(2) |$entry|          { notice "first ${$entry[0]}, second ${$entry[1]}" }
    $a.slice(2) |$first, $second| { notice "first ${first}, second ${second}" }

The function produces a concatenated result of the slices.

    slice([1,2,3,4,5,6], 2) # produces [[1,2], [3,4], [5,6]]
    slice(Integer[1,6], 2)  # produces [[1,2], [3,4], [5,6]]
    slice(4,2)              # produces [[0,1], [2,3]]
    slice('hello',2)        # produces [[h, e], [l, l], [o]]

You can also optionally pass a lambda to slice.

    $a.slice($n) |$x| { ... }
    slice($a) |$x| { ... }

The lambda should have either one parameter (receiving an array with the slice), or the same number
of parameters as specified by the slice size (each parameter receiving its part of the slice).
If there are fewer remaining elements than the slice size for the last slice, it will contain the remaining
elements. If the lambda has multiple parameters, excess parameters are set to undef for an array, or
to empty arrays for a hash.

    $a.slice(2) |$first, $second| { ... }

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue

split
-----
Split a string variable into an array using the specified split regexp.

*Example:*

    $string     = 'v1.v2:v3.v4'
    $array_var1 = split($string, ':')
    $array_var2 = split($string, '[.]')
    $array_var3 = split($string, Regexp['[.:]'])

`$array_var1` now holds the result `['v1.v2', 'v3.v4']`,
while `$array_var2` holds `['v1', 'v2:v3', 'v4']`, and
`$array_var3` holds `['v1', 'v2', 'v3', 'v4']`.

Note that in the second example, we split on a literal string that contains
a regexp meta-character (.), which must be escaped.  A simple
way to do that for a single character is to enclose it in square
brackets; a backslash will also escape a single character.

- *Type*: rvalue

sprintf
-------
Perform printf-style formatting of text.

The first parameter is format string describing how the rest of the parameters should be formatted.  See the documentation for the `Kernel::sprintf` function in Ruby for all the details.

- *Type*: rvalue

step
----
Provides stepping with given interval over elements in an iterable and optionally runs a
[lambda](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html) for each
element.

This function takes two to three arguments:

1. An 'Iterable' that the function will iterate over.
2. An `Integer` step factor. This must be a positive integer.
3. An optional lambda, which the function calls for each element in the interval. It must
   request one parameter.

**Example:** Using the `step` function

```puppet
$data.step(<n>) |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }
```

or

```puppet
$stepped_data = $data.step(<n>)
```

or
```puppet
step($data, <n>) |$parameter| { <PUPPET CODE BLOCK> }
```

or

```puppet
$stepped_data = step($data, <n>)
```

When no block is given, Puppet returns an `Iterable` that yields the first element and every nth successor
element, from its first argument. This allows functions on iterables to be chained.
When a block is given, Puppet iterates and calls the block with the first element and then with
every nth successor element. It then returns `undef`.

**Example:** Using the `step` function with an array, a step factor, and a one-parameter block

```puppet
# For the array $data, call a block with the first element and then with each 3rd successor element
$data = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]
$data.step(3) |$item| {
 notice($item)
}
# Puppet notices the values '1', '4', '7'.
```

When no block is given, Puppet returns a new `Iterable` which allows it to be directly chained into
another function that takes an `Iterable` as an argument.

**Example:** Using the `step` function chained with a `map` function.

```puppet
# For the array $data, return an array, set to the first element and each 5th successor element, in reverse
# order multiplied by 10
$data = Integer[0,20]
$transformed_data = $data.step(5).map |$item| { $item * 10 }
$transformed_data contains [0,50,100,150,200]
```

**Example:** The same example using `step` function chained with a `map` in alternative syntax

```puppet
# For the array $data, return an array, set to the first and each 5th
# successor, in reverse order, multiplied by 10
$data = Integer[0,20]
$transformed_data = map(step($data, 5)) |$item| { $item * 10 }
$transformed_data contains [0,50,100,150,200]
```

* Since 4.4.0

- *Type*: rvalue

tag
---
Add the specified tags to the containing class
or definition.  All contained objects will then acquire that tag, also.

- *Type*: statement

tagged
------
A boolean function that
tells you whether the current container is tagged with the specified tags.
The tags are ANDed, so that all of the specified tags must be included for
the function to return true.

- *Type*: rvalue

template
--------
Loads an ERB template from a module, evaluates it, and returns the resulting
value as a string.

The argument to this function should be a `<MODULE NAME>/<TEMPLATE FILE>`
reference, which will load `<TEMPLATE FILE>` from a module's `templates`
directory. (For example, the reference `apache/vhost.conf.erb` will load the
file `<MODULES DIRECTORY>/apache/templates/vhost.conf.erb`.)

This function can also accept:

* An absolute path, which can load a template file from anywhere on disk.
* Multiple arguments, which will evaluate all of the specified templates and
return their outputs concatenated into a single string.

- *Type*: rvalue

type
----
Returns the data type of a given value with a given degree of generality.

```puppet
type InferenceFidelity = Enum[generalized, reduced, detailed]

function type(Any $value, InferenceFidelity $fidelity = 'detailed') # returns Type
```

 **Example:** Using `type`

 ``` puppet
 notice type(42) =~ Type[Integer]
 ```

 Would notice `true`.

 By default, the best possible inference is made where all details are retained.
 This is good when the type is used for further type calculations but is overwhelmingly
 rich in information if it is used in a error message.

 The optional argument `$fidelity` may be given as (from lowest to highest fidelity):

 * `generalized` - reduces to common type and drops size constraints
 * `reduced` - reduces to common type in collections
 * `detailed` - (default) all details about inferred types is retained

 **Example:** Using `type()` with different inference fidelity:

 ``` puppet
 notice type([3.14, 42], 'generalized')
 notice type([3.14, 42], 'reduced'')
 notice type([3.14, 42], 'detailed')
 notice type([3.14, 42])
 ```

 Would notice the four values:

 1. 'Array[Numeric]'
 2. 'Array[Numeric, 2, 2]'
 3. 'Tuple[Float[3.14], Integer[42,42]]]'
 4. 'Tuple[Float[3.14], Integer[42,42]]]'

 * Since 4.4.0

- *Type*: rvalue

versioncmp
----------
Compares two version numbers.

Prototype:

    $result = versioncmp(a, b)

Where a and b are arbitrary version strings.

This function returns:

* `1` if version a is greater than version b
* `0` if the versions are equal
* `-1` if version a is less than version b

Example:

    if versioncmp('2.6-1', '2.4.5') > 0 {
        notice('2.6-1 is > than 2.4.5')
    }

This function uses the same version comparison algorithm used by Puppet's
`package` type.

- *Type*: rvalue

warning
-------
Log a message on the server at level warning.

- *Type*: statement

with
----
Call a [lambda](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html)
with the given arguments and return the result. Since a lambda's scope is
[local](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/lang_lambdas.html#lambda-scope)
to the lambda, you can use the `with` function to create private blocks of code within a
class using variables whose values cannot be accessed outside of the lambda.

**Example**: Using `with`

``` puppet
# Concatenate three strings into a single string formatted as a list.
$fruit = with("apples", "oranges", "bananas") |$x, $y, $z| {
  "${x}, ${y}, and ${z}"
}
$check_var = $x
# $fruit contains "apples, oranges, and bananas"
# $check_var is undefined, as the value of $x is local to the lambda.
```

- Since 4.0.0

- *Type*: rvalue



----------------

*This page autogenerated on 2016-07-07 12:39:40 -0500*
