---
layout: default
title: "PE 3.7.1 » Security and SSL » Cert Regeneration: Split Deployments"
subtitle: "Regenerating Certs and Security Credentials in Split Puppet Enterprise Deployments"
canonical: "/pe/latest/trouble_regenerate_certs_split.html"
description: "This page explains how to regenerate all SSL certificates in Puppet Enterprise deployments with separate servers for different components. "
---

> **Warning**: Do not perform these cert regeneration steps if you have upgraded to PE 3.7.x and not yet [classified the new PE groups](./install_upgrading_notes.html#classifying-pe-groups). You can perform these cert regen steps after classifying those groups.

> **Note**: This page explains how to regenerate all certificates in **a split PE deployment** --- that is, where the Puppet master, PuppetDB, and PE console components are all installed on separate servers. [See this page for instructions on regenerating certificates in a **monolithic PE deployment.**][mono_regen] >
>
>If you don't need to regenerate certs for **all** components in your deployment, you can choose instructions for just [the Puppet master](./regenerate_certs_master.html), [the PE console](./regenerate_certs_console.html), or [PuppetDB](./regenerate_certs_puppetdb.html). 

> **Tip**: If you just need to regenerate certs and security credentials for an individual PE component, and do not need to recreate your CA, refer to the cert regen docs for the Puppet master, PuppetDB, or the PE console.  

## Overview

In some cases, you may find that you need to regenerate the SSL certificates and security credentials (private and public keys) that are generated by PE's built-in certificate authority (CA). For example, you may have a Puppet master you need to move to a different network in your infrastructure, or you may find you need to regenerate all the certificates and security credentials in your infrastructure due to an unforeseen security vulnerability.

Regardless of your situation, regenerating your certificates involves the following major steps (complete procedures follow below):

1. Shut down all PE-related services.
2. Delete and recreate the CA and generate the certificates and security credentials needed for PE to resume basic operation. 
3. Clear and replace certs and security credentials for PuppetDB.
4. Clear and replace certs and security credentials for the PE console.
5. Restart all PE-related services. 
6. Clear and replace certs and security credentials for all agent nodes.


Note that this process **destroys the certificate authority and all other certificates.** It is meant for use in the event of a total compromise of your site, or some other unusual circumstance. If you just need to replace a few agent certificates, you can use the `puppet cert clean` command on your Puppet master and then follow [step six](#step-6-clear-and-regenerate-certs-for-pe-agents) for any agents that need to be replaced.

>**Important Notes and Warnings**
> 
> - You must be logged in as a root, (or in the case of Windows agents, as an account with Administrator Privileges) to make these changes.
>
> - If you encounter any errors during steps that involve `service stop/start`, `rm`, `cp`, or `chmod` commands, you should diagnose these before continuing, as the success each step is very important to the success of the next step.

## Step 1: Shut down all PE-related services

1. On your Puppet master node, run the following commands:

        puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-activemq ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=stopped 

2. On your PuppetDB node, run the following commands:

        puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-puppetdb ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-postgresql ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=stopped   

3. On your PE console node, run the following commands:

        puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-console-services ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-httpd ensure=stopped
        puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=stopped

## Step 2: Delete and recreate the CA

>**Notes**: In the following instructions, when `<CERTNAME>` is used, it refers to the Puppet agent's certname. To find this value, run `puppet config print certname` before starting.

**On your Puppet master:**

1. Back up the `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/` directory. 

   If something goes wrong, you may need to restore these directories so your deployment can stay functional. **However,** if you needed to regenerate your certs for security reasons and couldn't, you should contact Puppet Labs support as soon as you restore service so we can help you secure your site.

2. Clear all certs from your Puppet master.

   `rm -rf /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/*`
 
3. Remove the cached catalog.

   `rm -f /var/opt/lib/pe-puppet/client_data/catalog/<CERTNAME>.json`
  
4. Regenerate the CA.
  
   `puppet cert list -a`  

   You should see this message: `Notice: Signed certificate request for ca`.
   
5. Generate the Puppet master's new certs.

    `puppet cert generate <CERTNAME> --dns_alt_names=<DNS_ALT_NAMES>`
   
   >**Note**: Be sure to specify any dns alt names you have. You can find the list of your current dns alt names with `puppet config print dns_alt_names`. By default, PE uses `puppet` and `puppet.domain`.
   
6. Copy over the CA certificate revocation list (CRL).

       cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/ca_crl.pem /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/crl.pem
       chown -R pe-puppet:pe-puppet /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl

7. Generate new MCollective certs.

       puppet cert generate pe-internal-mcollective-servers
       puppet cert generate pe-internal-peadmin-mcollective-client
       puppet cert generate pe-internal-puppet-console-mcollective-client

8. Restart the pe-puppetserver service.

    `puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=running`
   
## Step 3: Clear and Regenerate Certs for PuppetDB

**On your PuppetDB server**:

1. Back up the following directories:

   * `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/`
   
   * `/etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/ssl/`
   
   * `/opt/puppet/var/lib/pgsql/9.2/data/certs/*` 
   
2. Delete Puppet agent's SSL cert and security credentials.

   `rm -rf /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/*`
   
3. Generate keys and request a new certificate from the CA Puppet master. These certs will end up in `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl`.

   `puppet agent --test --no-daemonize --noop`
   
   > **Note**: This agent run will not complete successfully, but it is necessary to set up the agent certificate for the node. You will see some errors about node definition and the inability to submit facts due to PuppetDB being offline. You can ignore these. 

4. Delete puppetdb’s SSL cert and security credentials.

   `rm -rf /etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/ssl/*`
   
5. Copy the certs and security credentials to the PuppetDB SSL directory. 

       cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/<CERTNAME>.pem /etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/ssl/<CERTNAME>.cert.pem
       cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/public_keys/<CERTNAME>.pem /etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/ssl/<CERTNAME>.public_key.pem
       cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/<CERTNAME>.pem /etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/ssl/<CERTNAME>.private_key.pem
       chown -R pe-puppetdb:pe-puppetdb /etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/ssl
   
6. Clear the certs and security credentials from the PostgreSQL certs directory.

    `rm -rf /opt/puppet/var/lib/pgsql/9.2/data/certs/*`

7. Copy the certs and security credentials to the PostgreSQL certs directory. 

       cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/var/lib/pgsql/9.2/data/certs/<CERTNAME>.cert.pem
       cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/public_keys/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/var/lib/pgsql/9.2/data/certs/<CERTNAME>.public_key.pem
       cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/var/lib/pgsql/9.2/data/certs/<CERTNAME>.private_key.pem
       chmod 400 /opt/puppet/var/lib/pgsql/9.2/data/certs/*
       chown pe-postgres:pe-postgres /opt/puppet/var/lib/pgsql/9.2/data/certs/*
   
## Step 4: Clear and Regenerate Certs for the PE Console

**On the PE console server**: 

1. Back up the following directories:

   * `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/`

   * `/opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs`
   
   * `/opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs`
    
2. Delete Puppet agent's SSL cert and security credentials.

    `rm -rf /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/*`
   
3. Generate keys and request a new certificate from the CA Puppet master. These certs will end up in `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl`.

   `puppet agent --test --no-daemonize --noop`
   
   > **Note**: This agent run will not complete successfully, but it is necessary to set up the agent certificate for the node. You will see some errors about node definition and the inability to submit facts due to PuppetDB being offline. You can ignore these.
  
4. Create the pe-internal-classifier and pe-internal-dashboard certs.  

       puppet certificate generate pe-internal-classifier --ca-location remote --ca_server <CA SERVER HOSTNAME>
       puppet certificate find pe-internal-classifier --ca-location remote --ca_server <CA SERVER HOSTNAME>
       puppet certificate generate pe-internal-dashboard --ca-location remote --ca_server <CA SERVER HOSTNAME>
       puppet certificate find pe-internal-dashboard --ca-location remote --ca_server <CA SERVER HOSTNAME> 
    
5. Purge the console-services and puppet-dashboard certs directory.

        rm -rf /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/*
        rm -rf /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs/*  

6. Copy the PE agent cert and security credentials to the console-services cert directory. 

        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/<CERTNAME>.cert.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/public_keys/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/<CERTNAME>.public_key.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/<CERTNAME>.private_key.pem
        
7. Copy the pe-internal-classifier cert and security credentials to the console-services cert directory. 

        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/pe-internal-classifier.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/pe-internal-classifier.cert.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/public_keys/pe-internal-classifier.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/pe-internal-classifier.public_key.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/pe-internal-classifier.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/pe-internal-classifier.private_key.pem
   
8. Copy the pe-internal-dashboard cert and security credentials to the console-services cert directory. 

        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/pe-internal-dashboard.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/pe-internal-dashboard.cert.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/public_keys/pe-internal-dashboard.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/pe-internal-dashboard.public_key.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/pe-internal-dashboard.pem /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs/pe-internal-dashboard.private_key.pem   

9. Ensure the console can access the new credentials.

    `chown -R pe-console-services:pe-console-services /opt/puppet/share/console-services/certs`

10. Copy the agent cert and security credentials to the puppet-dashboard cert directory. 

        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs/<CERTNAME>.cert.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/public_keys/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs/<CERTNAME>.public_key.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/<CERTNAME>.pem /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs/<CERTNAME>.private_key.pem

11. Copy the pe-internal-dashboard cert and security credentials to the puppet-dashboard cert directory.

        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/pe-internal-dashboard.pem /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs/pe-internal-dashboard.cert.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/public_keys/pe-internal-dashboard.pem /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs/pe-internal-dashboard.public_key.pem
        cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/pe-internal-dashboard.pem /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs/pe-internal-dashboard.private_key.pem

12. Ensure the console can access the new credentials.

    `chown -R puppet-dashboard:puppet-dashboard /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/certs`
    
##  Step 5: Restart PE Services

Now that all the certs are in place, you will need to restart the PE services you stopped. 

1. On your Puppet master node, run the following commands:

        puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-activemq ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=running


2. On your PuppetDB node, run the following commands:

        puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-puppetdb ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-postgresql ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=running

3. On your PE console node, run the following commands:

        puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-httpd ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-console-services ensure=running
        puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=running
     
Kick off a Pupept run. A successful Puppet run on the master, PuppetDB and PE console is necessary to ensure that the PE orchestration service and ActiveMQ is configured properly.


## Step 6: Clear and Regenerate Certs for PE Agents

[agent_certs]: #step-5-clear-and-regenerate-certs-for-pe-agents

To replace the certs on agents, you'll need to log into each agent node and do the following:

To replace the certs on agents, you'll need to log into each agent node and do the following:

1. Back up the `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/` directory.

   If something goes wrong, you may need to restore these directories so your deployment can stay functional. **However,** if you needed to regenerate your certs for security reasons and couldn't, you should contact Puppet Labs support as soon as you restore service so we can help you secure your site.

2. Stop the Puppet agent service.

   `puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=stopped`

3. Stop the orchestration service.

   `puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=stopped`
   
4. Delete the agent's SSL directory. On \*nix nodes, run `rm -r /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl`. On Windows nodes, delete the `$confdir\ssl` directory, using the Administrator confdir. [See here for more information on locating the confdir.][confdir]
5. Remove the cached catalog. on \*nix nodes, run `rm -f /var/opt/lib/pe-puppet/client_data/catalog/<CERT NAME>.json`. On Windows nodes, delete the `$client_datadir\catalog\<CERTNAME>.json` file, using the Administrator confdir. [See here for more information on locating the confdir.][confdir]

6. Re-start the Puppet agent service.
   
   `puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=running`

   Once Puppet agent starts, it will automatically generate keys and request a new certificate from the CA Puppet master.
   
7. If you are not using autosigning, you will need to sign each agent node's certificate request. You can do this [with the PE console's request manager][request_manager], or by logging into the CA Puppet master server, running `puppet cert list` to see pending requests, and running `puppet cert sign <NAME>` to sign requests.

Once an agent node's new certificate is signed, it will fetch it automatically within a few minutes and begin a Puppet run. After a node has fetched its new certificate and completed a full Puppet run, it will once again appear in orchestration and live management. If, after waiting for a short time, you don't see the agent node in live management, use NTP to make sure time is in sync across your PE deployment. On Windows nodes, you may need to log into the node and check the status of the Marionette Collective service --- sometimes it can hang while attempting to stop or restart.


> Once you have regenerated all agents' certificates, **everything should now be back to normal and fully functional under the new CA**.

[confdir]: /puppet/3.6/reference/dirs_confdir.html#windows-systems
[request_manager]: ./console_cert_mgmt.html
[mono_regen]: ./trouble_regenerate_certs_monolithic.html
