---
layout: default
title: "Metaparameter Reference"
canonical: "/puppet/2.7/reference/metaparameter.html"
---


# Metaparameter Reference



**This page is autogenerated; any changes will get overwritten** *(last generated on Tue Mar 19 17:19:13 -0700 2013)*



# Metaparameters

Metaparameters are parameters that work with any resource type; they are part of the
Puppet framework itself rather than being part of the implementation of any
given instance.  Thus, any defined metaparameter can be used with any instance
in your manifest, including defined components.

## Available Metaparameters

### alias

Creates an alias for the object.  Puppet uses this internally when you
provide a symbolic title:

    file { 'sshdconfig':
      path => $operatingsystem ? {
        solaris => "/usr/local/etc/ssh/sshd_config",
        default => "/etc/ssh/sshd_config"
      },
      source => "..."
    }

    service { 'sshd':
      subscribe => File['sshdconfig']
    }

When you use this feature, the parser sets `sshdconfig` as the title,
and the library sets that as an alias for the file so the dependency
lookup in `Service['sshd']` works.  You can use this metaparameter yourself,
but note that only the library can use these aliases; for instance,
the following code will not work:

    file { "/etc/ssh/sshd_config":
      owner => root,
      group => root,
      alias => 'sshdconfig'
    }

    file { 'sshdconfig':
      mode => 644
    }

There's no way here for the Puppet parser to know that these two stanzas
should be affecting the same file.




### audit

Marks a subset of this resource's unmanaged attributes for auditing. Accepts an
attribute name, an array of attribute names, or `all`.

Auditing a resource attribute has two effects: First, whenever a catalog
is applied with puppet apply or puppet agent, Puppet will check whether
that attribute of the resource has been modified, comparing its current
value to the previous run; any change will be logged alongside any actions
performed by Puppet while applying the catalog.

Secondly, marking a resource attribute for auditing will include that
attribute in inspection reports generated by puppet inspect; see the
puppet inspect documentation for more details.

Managed attributes for a resource can also be audited, but note that
changes made by Puppet will be logged as additional modifications. (I.e.
if a user manually edits a file whose contents are audited and managed,
puppet agent's next two runs will both log an audit notice: the first run
will log the user's edit and then revert the file to the desired state,
and the second run will log the edit made by Puppet.)

### before

References to one or more objects that depend on this object. This
parameter is the opposite of **require** --- it guarantees that
the specified object is applied later than the specifying object:

    file { "/var/nagios/configuration":
      source  => "...",
      recurse => true,
      before  => Exec["nagios-rebuid"]
    }

    exec { "nagios-rebuild":
      command => "/usr/bin/make",
      cwd     => "/var/nagios/configuration"
    }

This will make sure all of the files are up to date before the
make command is run.

### check

Audit specified attributes of resources over time, and report if any have changed.
This parameter has been deprecated in favor of 'audit'.

### loglevel

Sets the level that information will be logged.
The log levels have the biggest impact when logs are sent to
syslog (which is currently the default).  Valid values are `debug`, `info`, `notice`, `warning`, `err`, `alert`, `emerg`, `crit`, `verbose`.

### noop

Boolean flag indicating whether work should actually
be done.  Valid values are `true`, `false`.

### notify

References to one or more objects that depend on this object. This
parameter is the opposite of **subscribe** --- it creates a
dependency relationship like **before,** and also causes the
dependent object(s) to be refreshed when this object is changed. For
instance:

      file { "/etc/sshd_config":
        source => "....",
        notify => Service['sshd']
      }

      service { 'sshd':
        ensure => running
      }

  This will restart the sshd service if the sshd config file changes.

### require

References to one or more objects that this object depends on.
This is used purely for guaranteeing that changes to required objects
happen before the dependent object.  For instance:

    # Create the destination directory before you copy things down
    file { "/usr/local/scripts":
      ensure => directory
    }

    file { "/usr/local/scripts/myscript":
      source  => "puppet://server/module/myscript",
      mode    => 755,
      require => File["/usr/local/scripts"]
    }

Multiple dependencies can be specified by providing a comma-separated list
of resources, enclosed in square brackets:

    require => [ File["/usr/local"], File["/usr/local/scripts"] ]

Note that Puppet will autorequire everything that it can, and
there are hooks in place so that it's easy for resources to add new
ways to autorequire objects, so if you think Puppet could be
smarter here, let us know.

In fact, the above code was redundant --- Puppet will autorequire
any parent directories that are being managed; it will
automatically realize that the parent directory should be created
before the script is pulled down.

Currently, exec resources will autorequire their CWD (if it is
specified) plus any fully qualified paths that appear in the
command.   For instance, if you had an `exec` command that ran
the `myscript` mentioned above, the above code that pulls the
file down would be automatically listed as a requirement to the
`exec` code, so that you would always be running againts the
most recent version.


### schedule

On what schedule the object should be managed.  You must create a
schedule object, and then reference the name of that object to use
that for your schedule:

    schedule { 'daily':
      period => daily,
      range  => "2-4"
    }

    exec { "/usr/bin/apt-get update":
      schedule => 'daily'
    }

The creation of the schedule object does not need to appear in the
configuration before objects that use it.

### stage

Which run stage a given resource should reside in.  This just creates
a dependency on or from the named milestone.  For instance, saying that
this is in the 'bootstrap' stage creates a dependency on the 'bootstrap'
milestone.

By default, all classes get directly added to the
'main' stage.  You can create new stages as resources:

    stage { ['pre', 'post']: }

To order stages, use standard relationships:

    stage { 'pre': before => Stage['main'] }

Or use the new relationship syntax:

    Stage['pre'] -> Stage['main'] -> Stage['post']

Then use the new class parameters to specify a stage:

    class { 'foo': stage => 'pre' }

Stages can only be set on classes, not individual resources.  This will
fail:

    file { '/foo': stage => 'pre', ensure => file }


### subscribe

References to one or more objects that this object depends on. This
metaparameter creates a dependency relationship like **require,**
and also causes the dependent object to be refreshed when the
subscribed object is changed. For instance:

    class nagios {
      file { 'nagconf':
        path   => "/etc/nagios/nagios.conf"
        source => "puppet://server/module/nagios.conf",
      }
      service { 'nagios':
        ensure    => running,
        subscribe => File['nagconf']
      }
    }

Currently the `exec`, `mount` and `service` types support
refreshing.


### tag

Add the specified tags to the associated resource.  While all resources
are automatically tagged with as much information as possible
(e.g., each class and definition containing the resource), it can
be useful to add your own tags to a given resource.

Multiple tags can be specified as an array:

    file {'/etc/hosts':
      ensure => file,
      source => 'puppet:///modules/site/hosts',
      mode   => 0644,
      tag    => ['bootstrap', 'minimumrun', 'mediumrun'],
    }

Tags are useful for things like applying a subset of a host's configuration
with [the `tags` setting](/puppet/latest/reference/configuration.html#tags):

    puppet agent --test --tags bootstrap

This way, you can easily isolate the portion of the configuration you're
trying to test.



----------------

*This page autogenerated on Tue Mar 19 17:19:14 -0700 2013*
