---
layout: default
title: "Function Reference"
canonical: "/puppet/latest/reference/function.html"
---


# Function Reference



**This page is autogenerated; any changes will get overwritten** *(last generated on Wed Feb 19 13:49:38 -0800 2014)*


There are two types of functions in Puppet: Statements and rvalues.
Statements stand on their own and do not return arguments; they are used for
performing stand-alone work like importing.  Rvalues return values and can
only be used in a statement requiring a value, such as an assignment or a case
statement.

Functions execute on the Puppet master.  They do not execute on the Puppet agent.
Hence they only have access to the commands and data available on the Puppet master
host.

Here are the functions available in Puppet:

alert
-----
Log a message on the server at level alert.

- *Type*: statement

collect
-------
The 'collect' function has been renamed to 'map'. Please update your manifests.

The collect function is reserved for future use.
- Removed as of 3.4
- requires `parser = future`.

- *Type*: rvalue

contain
-------
Contain one or more classes inside the current class. If any of
these classes are undeclared, they will be declared as if called with the
`include` function. Accepts a class name, an array of class names, or a
comma-separated list of class names.

A contained class will not be applied before the containing class is
begun, and will be finished before the containing class is finished.

- *Type*: statement

create_resources
----------------
Converts a hash into a set of resources and adds them to the catalog.

This function takes two mandatory arguments: a resource type, and a hash describing
a set of resources. The hash should be in the form `{title => {parameters} }`:

    # A hash of user resources:
    $myusers = {
      'nick' => { uid    => '1330',
                  gid    => allstaff,
                  groups => ['developers', 'operations', 'release'], },
      'dan'  => { uid    => '1308',
                  gid    => allstaff,
                  groups => ['developers', 'prosvc', 'release'], },
    }

    create_resources(user, $myusers)

A third, optional parameter may be given, also as a hash:

    $defaults = {
      'ensure'   => present,
      'provider' => 'ldap',
    }

    create_resources(user, $myusers, $defaults)

The values given on the third argument are added to the parameters of each resource
present in the set given on the second argument. If a parameter is present on both
the second and third arguments, the one on the second argument takes precedence.

This function can be used to create defined resources and classes, as well
as native resources.

Virtual and Exported resources may be created by prefixing the type name
with @ or @@ respectively.  For example, the $myusers hash may be exported
in the following manner:

    create_resources("@@user", $myusers)

The $myusers may be declared as virtual resources using:

    create_resources("@user", $myusers)

- *Type*: statement

crit
----
Log a message on the server at level crit.

- *Type*: statement

debug
-----
Log a message on the server at level debug.

- *Type*: statement

defined
-------
Determine whether
a given class or resource type is defined. This function can also determine whether a
specific resource has been declared. Returns true or false. Accepts class names,
type names, and resource references.

The `defined` function checks both native and defined types, including types
provided as plugins via modules. Types and classes are both checked using their names:

    defined("file")
    defined("customtype")
    defined("foo")
    defined("foo::bar")

Resource declarations are checked using resource references, e.g.
`defined( File['/tmp/myfile'] )`. Checking whether a given resource
has been declared is, unfortunately, dependent on the parse order of
the configuration, and the following code will not work:

    if defined(File['/tmp/foo']) {
        notify("This configuration includes the /tmp/foo file.")
    }
    file {"/tmp/foo":
        ensure => present,
    }

However, this order requirement refers to parse order only, and ordering of
resources in the configuration graph (e.g. with `before` or `require`) does not
affect the behavior of `defined`.

- *Type*: rvalue

each
----
Applies a parameterized block to each element in a sequence of selected entries from the first
argument and returns the first argument.

This function takes two mandatory arguments: the first should be an Array or a Hash, and the second
a parameterized block as produced by the puppet syntax:

      $a.each |$x| { ... }

When the first argument is an Array, the parameterized block should define one or two block parameters.
For each application of the block, the next element from the array is selected, and it is passed to
the block if the block has one parameter. If the block has two parameters, the first is the elements
index, and the second the value. The index starts from 0.

      $a.each |$index, $value| { ... }

When the first argument is a Hash, the parameterized block should define one or two parameters.
When one parameter is defined, the iteration is performed with each entry as an array of `[key, value]`,
and when two parameters are defined the iteration is performed with key and value.

      $a.each |$entry|       { ..."key ${$entry[0]}, value ${$entry[1]}" }
      $a.each |$key, $value| { ..."key ${key}, value ${value}" }

- Since 3.2
- requires `parser = future`.

- *Type*: rvalue

emerg
-----
Log a message on the server at level emerg.

- *Type*: statement

err
---
Log a message on the server at level err.

- *Type*: statement

extlookup
---------
This is a parser function to read data from external files, this version
uses CSV files but the concept can easily be adjust for databases, yaml
or any other queryable data source.

The object of this is to make it obvious when it's being used, rather than
magically loading data in when a module is loaded I prefer to look at the code
and see statements like:

    $snmp_contact = extlookup("snmp_contact")

The above snippet will load the snmp_contact value from CSV files, this in its
own is useful but a common construct in puppet manifests is something like this:

    case $domain {
      "myclient.com": { $snmp_contact = "John Doe <john@myclient.com>" }
      default:        { $snmp_contact = "My Support <support@my.com>" }
    }

Over time there will be a lot of this kind of thing spread all over your manifests
and adding an additional client involves grepping through manifests to find all the
places where you have constructs like this.

This is a data problem and shouldn't be handled in code, and using this function you
can do just that.

First you configure it in site.pp:

    $extlookup_datadir = "/etc/puppet/manifests/extdata"
    $extlookup_precedence = ["%{fqdn}", "domain_%{domain}", "common"]

The array tells the code how to resolve values, first it will try to find it in
web1.myclient.com.csv then in domain_myclient.com.csv and finally in common.csv

Now create the following data files in /etc/puppet/manifests/extdata:

    domain_myclient.com.csv:
      snmp_contact,John Doe <john@myclient.com>
      root_contact,support@%{domain}
      client_trusted_ips,192.168.1.130,192.168.10.0/24

    common.csv:
      snmp_contact,My Support <support@my.com>
      root_contact,support@my.com

Now you can replace the case statement with the simple single line to achieve
the exact same outcome:

    $snmp_contact = extlookup("snmp_contact")

The above code shows some other features, you can use any fact or variable that
is in scope by simply using %{varname} in your data files, you can return arrays
by just having multiple values in the csv after the initial variable name.

In the event that a variable is nowhere to be found a critical error will be raised
that will prevent your manifest from compiling, this is to avoid accidentally putting
in empty values etc.  You can however specify a default value:

    $ntp_servers = extlookup("ntp_servers", "1.${country}.pool.ntp.org")

In this case it will default to "1.${country}.pool.ntp.org" if nothing is defined in
any data file.

You can also specify an additional data file to search first before any others at use
time, for example:

    $version = extlookup("rsyslog_version", "present", "packages")
    package{"rsyslog": ensure => $version }

This will look for a version configured in packages.csv and then in the rest as configured
by $extlookup_precedence if it's not found anywhere it will default to `present`, this kind
of use case makes puppet a lot nicer for managing large amounts of packages since you do not
need to edit a load of manifests to do simple things like adjust a desired version number.

Precedence values can have variables embedded in them in the form %{fqdn}, you could for example do:

    $extlookup_precedence = ["hosts/%{fqdn}", "common"]

This will result in /path/to/extdata/hosts/your.box.com.csv being searched.

This is for back compatibility to interpolate variables with %. % interpolation is a workaround for a problem that has been fixed: Puppet variable interpolation at top scope used to only happen on each run.

- *Type*: rvalue

fail
----
Fail with a parse error.

- *Type*: statement

file
----
Return the contents of a file.  Multiple files
can be passed, and the first file that exists will be read in.

- *Type*: rvalue

filter
------
Applies a parameterized block to each element in a sequence of entries from the first
argument and returns an array or hash (same type as left operand)
with the entries for which the block evaluates to true.

This function takes two mandatory arguments: the first should be an Array or a Hash, and the second
a parameterized block as produced by the puppet syntax:

      $a.filter |$x| { ... }

When the first argument is an Array, the block is called with each entry in turn. When the first argument
is a Hash the entry is an array with `[key, value]`.

The returned filtered object is of the same type as the receiver.

*Examples*

      # selects all that end with berry
      $a = ["raspberry", "blueberry", "orange"]
      $a.filter |$x| { $x =~ /berry$/ }

- Since 3.4
- requires `parser = future`.

- *Type*: rvalue

fqdn_rand
---------
Usage: `fqdn_rand(MAX, [SEED])`. MAX is required and must be a positive
integer; SEED is optional and may be any number or string.

Generates a random whole number greater than or equal to 0 and less than MAX,
combining the `$fqdn` fact and the value of SEED for repeatable randomness.
(That is, each node will get a different random number from this function, but
a given node's result will be the same every time unless its hostname changes.)

This function is usually used for spacing out runs of resource-intensive cron
tasks that run on many nodes, which could cause a thundering herd or degrade
other services if they all fire at once. Adding a SEED can be useful when you
have more than one such task and need several unrelated random numbers per
node. (For example, `fqdn_rand(30)`, `fqdn_rand(30, 'expensive job 1')`, and
`fqdn_rand(30, 'expensive job 2')` will produce totally different numbers.)

- *Type*: rvalue

generate
--------
Calls an external command on the Puppet master and returns
the results of the command.  Any arguments are passed to the external command as
arguments.  If the generator does not exit with return code of 0,
the generator is considered to have failed and a parse error is
thrown.  Generators can only have file separators, alphanumerics, dashes,
and periods in them.  This function will attempt to protect you from
malicious generator calls (e.g., those with '..' in them), but it can
never be entirely safe.  No subshell is used to execute
generators, so all shell metacharacters are passed directly to
the generator.

- *Type*: rvalue

hiera
-----
Performs a
standard priority lookup and returns the most specific value for a given key.
The returned value can be data of any type (strings, arrays, or hashes).

In addition to the required `key` argument, `hiera` accepts two additional
arguments:

- a `default` argument in the second position, providing a value to be
  returned in the absence of matches to the `key` argument
- an `override` argument in the third position, providing a data source
  to consult for matching values, even if it would not ordinarily be
  part of the matched hierarchy. If Hiera doesn't find a matching key
  in the named override data source, it will continue to search through the
  rest of the hierarchy.

More thorough examples of `hiera` are available at:
<http://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/1/puppet.html#hiera-lookup-functions>

- *Type*: rvalue

hiera_array
-----------
Returns all
matches throughout the hierarchy --- not just the first match --- as a flattened array of unique values.
If any of the matched values are arrays, they're flattened and included in the results.

In addition to the required `key` argument, `hiera_array` accepts two additional
arguments:

- a `default` argument in the second position, providing a string or array to be returned
  in the absence of  matches to the `key` argument
- an `override` argument in the third position, providing a data source to consult for
  matching values, even if it would not ordinarily be part of the matched hierarchy.
  If Hiera doesn't find a matching key in the named override data source, it will
  continue to search through the rest of the hierarchy.

If any matched value is a hash, puppet will raise a type mismatch error.

More thorough examples of `hiera` are available at:
<http://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/1/puppet.html#hiera-lookup-functions>

- *Type*: rvalue

hiera_hash
----------
Returns a merged hash of matches from throughout the hierarchy. In cases where two or
more hashes share keys, the hierarchy  order determines which key/value pair will be
used in the returned hash, with the pair in the highest priority data source winning.

In addition to the required `key` argument, `hiera_hash` accepts two additional
arguments:

- a `default` argument in the second position, providing a  hash to be returned in the
absence of any matches for the `key` argument
- an `override` argument in the third position, providing  a data source to insert at
the top of the hierarchy, even if it would not ordinarily match during a Hiera data
source lookup. If Hiera doesn't find a match in the named override data source, it will
continue to search through the rest of the hierarchy.

`hiera_hash` expects that all values returned will be hashes. If any of the values
found in the data sources are strings or arrays, puppet will raise a type mismatch error.

More thorough examples of `hiera_hash` are available at:
<http://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/1/puppet.html#hiera-lookup-functions>

- *Type*: rvalue

hiera_include
-------------
Assigns classes to a node
using an array merge lookup that retrieves the value for a user-specified key
from a Hiera data source.

To use `hiera_include`, the following configuration is required:

- A key name to use for classes, e.g. `classes`.
- A line in the puppet `sites.pp` file (e.g. `/etc/puppet/manifests/sites.pp`)
  reading `hiera_include('classes')`. Note that this line must be outside any node
  definition and below any top-scope variables in use for Hiera lookups.
- Class keys in the appropriate data sources. In a data source keyed to a node's role,
  one might have:

          ---
          classes:
            - apache
            - apache::passenger

In addition to the required `key` argument, `hiera_include` accepts two additional
arguments:

- a `default` argument in the second position, providing an array to be returned
  in the absence of matches to the `key` argument
- an `override` argument in the third position, providing a data source to consult
  for matching values, even if it would not ordinarily be part of the matched hierarchy.
  If Hiera doesn't find a matching key in the named override data source, it will continue
  to search through the rest of the hierarchy.

More thorough examples of `hiera_include` are available at:
<http://docs.puppetlabs.com/hiera/1/puppet.html#hiera-lookup-functions>

- *Type*: statement

include
-------
Declares one or more classes, causing the resources in them to be
evaluated and added to the catalog. Accepts a class name, an array of class
names, or a comma-separated list of class names.

The `include` function can be used multiple times on the same class and will
only declare a given class once. If a class declared with `include` has any
parameters, Puppet will automatically look up values for them in Hiera, using
`<class name>::<parameter name>` as the lookup key.

Contrast this behavior with resource-like class declarations
(`class {'name': parameter => 'value',}`), which must be used in only one place
per class and can directly set parameters. You should avoid using both `include`
and resource-like declarations with the same class.

The `include` function does not cause classes to be contained in the class
where they are declared. For that, see the `contain` function. It also
does not create a dependency relationship between the declared class and th
surrounding class; for that, see the `require` function.

- *Type*: statement

info
----
Log a message on the server at level info.

- *Type*: statement

inline_template
---------------
Evaluate a template string and return its value.  See
[the templating docs](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/templating.html) for
more information.  Note that if multiple template strings are specified, their
output is all concatenated and returned as the output of the function.

- *Type*: rvalue

lookup
------
Looks up data defined using Puppet Bindings.
The function is callable with one or two arguments and optionally with a lambda to process the result.
The second argument can be a type specification; a String that describes the type of the produced result.
If a value is found, an assert is made that the value is compliant with the specified type.

When called with one argument; the name:

    lookup('the_name')

When called with two arguments; the name, and the expected type:

    lookup('the_name', 'String')

Using a lambda to process the looked up result.

    lookup('the_name') |$result| { if $result == undef { 'Jane Doe' } else { $result }}

The type specification is one of:

* the basic types; 'Integer', 'String', 'Float', 'Boolean', or 'Pattern' (regular expression)
* an Array with an optional element type given in '[]', that when not given defaults to '[Data]'
* a Hash with optional key and value types given in '[]', where key type defaults to 'Literal' and value to 'Data', if
  only one type is given, the key defaults to 'Literal'
* the abstract type 'Literal' which is one of the basic types
* the abstract type 'Data' which is 'Literal', or type compatible with Array[Data], or Hash[Literal, Data]
* the abstract type 'Collection' which is Array or Hash of any element type.
* the abstract type 'Object' which is any kind of type

- *Type*: rvalue

map
---
Applies a parameterized block to each element in a sequence of entries from the first
argument and returns an array with the result of each invocation of the parameterized block.

This function takes two mandatory arguments: the first should be an Array or a Hash, and the second
a parameterized block as produced by the puppet syntax:

      $a.map |$x| { ... }

When the first argument `$a` is an Array, the block is called with each entry in turn. When the first argument
is a hash the entry is an array with `[key, value]`.

*Examples*

      # Turns hash into array of values
      $a.map |$x|{ $x[1] }

      # Turns hash into array of keys
      $a.map |$x| { $x[0] }

- Since 3.4
- requires `parser = future`.

- *Type*: rvalue

md5
---
Returns a MD5 hash value from a provided string.

- *Type*: rvalue

notice
------
Log a message on the server at level notice.

- *Type*: statement

realize
-------
Make a virtual object real.  This is useful
when you want to know the name of the virtual object and don't want to
bother with a full collection.  It is slightly faster than a collection,
and, of course, is a bit shorter.  You must pass the object using a
reference; e.g.: `realize User[luke]`.

- *Type*: statement

reduce
------
Applies a parameterized block to each element in a sequence of entries from the first
argument (_the collection_) and returns the last result of the invocation of the parameterized block.

This function takes two mandatory arguments: the first should be an Array or a Hash, and the last
a parameterized block as produced by the puppet syntax:

      $a.reduce |$memo, $x| { ... }

When the first argument is an Array, the block is called with each entry in turn. When the first argument
is a hash each entry is converted to an array with `[key, value]` before being fed to the block. An optional
'start memo' value may be supplied as an argument between the array/hash and mandatory block.

If no 'start memo' is given, the first invocation of the parameterized block will be given the first and second
elements of the collection, and if the collection has fewer than 2 elements, the first
element is produced as the result of the reduction without invocation of the block.

On each subsequent invocations, the produced value of the invoked parameterized block is given as the memo in the
next invocation.

*Examples*

      # Reduce an array
      $a = [1,2,3]
      $a.reduce |$memo, $entry| { $memo + $entry }
      #=> 6

      # Reduce hash values
      $a = {a => 1, b => 2, c => 3}
      $a.reduce |$memo, $entry| { [sum, $memo[1]+$entry[1]] }
      #=> [sum, 6]

It is possible to provide a starting 'memo' as an argument.

*Examples*

      # Reduce an array
      $a = [1,2,3]
      $a.reduce(4) |$memo, $entry| { $memo + $entry }
      #=> 10

      # Reduce hash values
      $a = {a => 1, b => 2, c => 3}
      $a.reduce([na, 4]) |$memo, $entry| { [sum, $memo[1]+$entry[1]] }
      #=> [sum, 10]

- Since 3.2
- requires `parser = future`.

- *Type*: rvalue

regsubst
--------

Perform regexp replacement on a string or array of strings.

* *Parameters* (in order):
    * _target_  The string or array of strings to operate on.  If an array, the replacement will be performed on each of the elements in the array, and the return value will be an array.
    * _regexp_  The regular expression matching the target string.  If you want it anchored at the start and or end of the string, you must do that with ^ and $ yourself.
    * _replacement_  Replacement string. Can contain backreferences to what was matched using \0 (whole match), \1 (first set of parentheses), and so on.
    * _flags_  Optional. String of single letter flags for how the regexp is interpreted:
        - *E*         Extended regexps
        - *I*         Ignore case in regexps
        - *M*         Multiline regexps
        - *G*         Global replacement; all occurrences of the regexp in each target string will be replaced.  Without this, only the first occurrence will be replaced.
    * _encoding_  Optional.  How to handle multibyte characters.  A single-character string with the following values:
        - *N*         None
        - *E*         EUC
        - *S*         SJIS
        - *U*         UTF-8

* *Examples*

Get the third octet from the node's IP address:

    $i3 = regsubst($ipaddress,'^(\d+)\.(\d+)\.(\d+)\.(\d+)$','\3')

Put angle brackets around each octet in the node's IP address:

    $x = regsubst($ipaddress, '([0-9]+)', '<\1>', 'G')

- *Type*: rvalue

require
-------
Evaluate one or more classes,  adding the required class as a dependency.

The relationship metaparameters work well for specifying relationships
between individual resources, but they can be clumsy for specifying
relationships between classes.  This function is a superset of the
'include' function, adding a class relationship so that the requiring
class depends on the required class.

Warning: using require in place of include can lead to unwanted dependency cycles.

For instance the following manifest, with 'require' instead of 'include' would produce a nasty dependence cycle, because notify imposes a before between File[/foo] and Service[foo]:

    class myservice {
      service { foo: ensure => running }
    }

    class otherstuff {
      include myservice
      file { '/foo': notify => Service[foo] }
    }

Note that this function only works with clients 0.25 and later, and it will
fail if used with earlier clients.

- *Type*: statement

search
------
Add another namespace for this class to search.
This allows you to create classes with sets of definitions and add
those classes to another class's search path.

- *Type*: statement

select
------
The 'select' function has been renamed to 'filter'. Please update your manifests.

The select function is reserved for future use.
- Removed as of 3.4
- requires `parser = future`.

- *Type*: rvalue

sha1
----
Returns a SHA1 hash value from a provided string.

- *Type*: rvalue

shellquote
----------
Quote and concatenate arguments for use in Bourne shell.

Each argument is quoted separately, and then all are concatenated
with spaces.  If an argument is an array, the elements of that
array is interpolated within the rest of the arguments; this makes
it possible to have an array of arguments and pass that array to
shellquote instead of having to specify each argument
individually in the call.

- *Type*: rvalue

slice
-----
Applies a parameterized block to each _slice_ of elements in a sequence of selected entries from the first
argument and returns the first argument, or if no block is given returns a new array with a concatenation of
the slices.

This function takes two mandatory arguments: the first, `$a`, should be an Array or a Hash, and the second, `$n`,
the number of elements to include in each slice. The optional third argument should be a
a parameterized block as produced by the puppet syntax:

    $a.slice($n) |$x| { ... }

The parameterized block should have either one parameter (receiving an array with the slice), or the same number
of parameters as specified by the slice size (each parameter receiving its part of the slice).
In case there are fewer remaining elements than the slice size for the last slice it will contain the remaining
elements. When the block has multiple parameters, excess parameters are set to :undef for an array, and to
empty arrays for a Hash.

    $a.slice(2) |$first, $second| { ... }

When the first argument is a Hash, each key,value entry is counted as one, e.g, a slice size of 2 will produce
an array of two arrays with key, value.

    $a.slice(2) |$entry|          { notice "first ${$entry[0]}, second ${$entry[1]}" }
    $a.slice(2) |$first, $second| { notice "first ${first}, second ${second}" }

When called without a block, the function produces a concatenated result of the slices.

    slice($[1,2,3,4,5,6], 2) # produces [[1,2], [3,4], [5,6]]

- Since 3.2
- requires `parser = future`.

- *Type*: rvalue

split
-----
Split a string variable into an array using the specified split regexp.

*Example:*

    $string     = 'v1.v2:v3.v4'
    $array_var1 = split($string, ':')
    $array_var2 = split($string, '[.]')
    $array_var3 = split($string, '[.:]')

`$array_var1` now holds the result `['v1.v2', 'v3.v4']`,
while `$array_var2` holds `['v1', 'v2:v3', 'v4']`, and
`$array_var3` holds `['v1', 'v2', 'v3', 'v4']`.

Note that in the second example, we split on a literal string that contains
a regexp meta-character (.), which must be escaped.  A simple
way to do that for a single character is to enclose it in square
brackets; a backslash will also escape a single character.

- *Type*: rvalue

sprintf
-------
Perform printf-style formatting of text.

The first parameter is format string describing how the rest of the parameters should be formatted.  See the documentation for the `Kernel::sprintf` function in Ruby for all the details.

- *Type*: rvalue

tag
---
Add the specified tags to the containing class
or definition.  All contained objects will then acquire that tag, also.

- *Type*: statement

tagged
------
A boolean function that
tells you whether the current container is tagged with the specified tags.
The tags are ANDed, so that all of the specified tags must be included for
the function to return true.

- *Type*: rvalue

template
--------
Evaluate a template and return its value.  See
[the templating docs](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/templating.html) for
more information.

Note that if multiple templates are specified, their output is all
concatenated and returned as the output of the function.

- *Type*: rvalue

versioncmp
----------
Compares two version numbers.

Prototype:

    $result = versioncmp(a, b)

Where a and b are arbitrary version strings.

This function returns:

* `1` if version a is greater than version b
* `0` if the versions are equal
* `-1` if version a is less than version b

Example:

    if versioncmp('2.6-1', '2.4.5') > 0 {
        notice('2.6-1 is > than 2.4.5')
    }

This function uses the same version comparison algorithm used by Puppet's
`package` type.

- *Type*: rvalue

warning
-------
Log a message on the server at level warning.

- *Type*: statement



----------------

*This page autogenerated on Wed Feb 19 13:49:38 -0800 2014*
